src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-private-database.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Connect to a private database using Tunnel
sidebar:
  order: 4
  badge:
    text: Beta
---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Render } from "~/components";

Hyperdrive can securely connect to your private databases using [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) and [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/).

## How it works

When your database is isolated within a private network (such as a [virtual private cloud](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cloud/what-is-a-virtual-private-cloud) or an on-premise network), you must enable a secure connection from your network to Cloudflare.

- [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) is used to establish the secure tunnel connection.
- [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/) is used to restrict access to your tunnel such that only specific Hyperdrive configurations can access it.

A request from the Cloudflare Worker to the origin database goes through Hyperdrive, Cloudflare Access, and the Cloudflare Tunnel established by `cloudflared`. `cloudflared` must be running in the private network in which your database is accessible.

The Cloudflare Tunnel will establish an outbound bidirectional connection from your private network to Cloudflare. Cloudflare Access will secure your Cloudflare Tunnel to be only accessible by your Hyperdrive configuration.

![A request from the Cloudflare Worker to the origin database goes through Hyperdrive, Cloudflare Access and the Cloudflare Tunnel established by `cloudflared`.](~/assets/images/hyperdrive/configuration/hyperdrive-private-database-architecture.png)

<Render file="tutorials-before-you-start" product="workers" />

:::caution[Warning]

If your organization also uses [Super Bot Fight Mode](/bots/get-started/pro/), keep **Definitely Automated** set to **Allow**. Otherwise, tunnels might fail with a `websocket: bad handshake` error.
:::

## Prerequisites

- A database in your private network, [configured to use TLS/SSL](/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-postgres/#supported-tls-ssl-modes).
- A hostname on your Cloudflare account, which will be used to route requests to your database.

## 1. Create a tunnel in your private network

### 1.1. Create a tunnel

First, create a [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) in your private network to establish a secure connection between your network and Cloudflare. Your network must be configured such that the tunnel has permissions to egress to the Cloudflare network and access the database within your network.

<Render file="tunnel/create-tunnel" product="cloudflare-one" />

### 1.2. Connect your database using a public hostname

Your tunnel must be configured to use a public hostname so that Hyperdrive can route requests to it. If you don't have a hostname on Cloudflare yet, you will need to [register a new hostname](/registrar/get-started/register-domain/) or [add a zone](/dns/zone-setups/) to Cloudflare to proceed.

1. In the **Public Hostnames** tab, choose a **Domain** and specify any subdomain or path information. This will be used in your Hyperdrive configuration to route to this tunnel.

2. In the **Service** section, specify **Type** `TCP` and the URL and configured port of your database, such as `localhost:5432` or `my-database-host.database-provider.com:5432`. This address will be used by the tunnel to route requests to your database.

3. Select **Save tunnel**.

:::note
If you are setting up the tunnel through the CLI instead ([locally-managed tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/configure-tunnels/local-management/)), you will have to complete these steps manually. Follow the Cloudflare Zero Trust documentation to [add a public hostname to your tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/routing-to-tunnel/dns/) and [configure the public hostname to route to the address of your database](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/configure-tunnels/local-management/configuration-file/).
:::

## 2. Create a service token

The service token will be used to restrict requests to the tunnel, and is needed for the next step.

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access** > **Service auth** > **Service Tokens**.

2. Select **Create Service Token**.

3. Name the service token. The name allows you to easily identify events related to the token in the logs and to revoke the token individually.

4. Set a **Service Token Duration** of `Non-expiring`. This prevents the service token from expiring, ensuring it can be used throughout the life of the Hyperdrive configuration.

5. Select **Generate token**. You will see the generated Client ID and Client Secret for the service token, as well as their respective request headers.

6. Copy the Access Client ID and Access Client Secret. These will be used when creating the Hyperdrive configuration.

   :::caution
   This is the only time Cloudflare Access will display the Client Secret. If you lose the Client Secret, you must regenerate the service token.
   :::

## 3. Create an Access application to secure the tunnel

[Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/) will be used to verify that requests to the tunnel originate from Hyperdrive using the service token created above.

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Add an application**.

3. Select **Self-hosted**.

4. Enter any name for the application.

5. In **Session Duration**, select `No duration, expires immediately`.

6. Select **Add public hostname**. and enter the subdomain and domain that was previously set for the tunnel application.

7. Select **Create new policy**.

8. Enter a **Policy name** and set the **Action** to _Service Auth_.

9. Create an **Include** rule. Specify a **Selector** of _Service Token_ and the **Value** of the service token you created in step [2. Create a service token](#2-create-a-service-token).

10. Save the policy.

11. Go back to the application configuration and add the newly created Access policy.

12. In **Login methods**, turn off _Accept all available identity providers_ and clear all identity providers.

13. Select **Next**.

14. In **Application Appearance**, turn off **Show application in App Launcher**.

15. Select **Next**.

16. Select **Next**.

17. Save the application.

## 4. Create a Hyperdrive configuration

To create a Hyperdrive configuration for your private database, you'll need to specify the Access application and Cloudflare Tunnel information upon creation.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Wrangler">

```sh
# wrangler v3.65 and above required
npx wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME-OF-HYPERDRIVE-CONFIGURATION-FOR-DB-VIA-TUNNEL> --host=<HOSTNAME-FOR-THE-TUNNEL> --user=<USERNAME-FOR-YOUR-DATABASE> --password=<PASSWORD-FOR-YOUR-DATABASE> --database=<DATABASE-TO-CONNECT-TO> --access-client-id=<YOUR-ACCESS-CLIENT-ID> --access-client-secret=<YOUR-SERVICE-TOKEN-CLIENT-SECRET>
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Terraform">

```terraform
resource "cloudflare_hyperdrive_config"  "<TERRAFORM_VARIABLE_NAME_FOR_CONFIGURATION>" {
  account_id = "<YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID>"
  name       = "<NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIGURATION>"
  origin     = {
    host     = "<HOSTNAME_OF_TUNNEL>"
    database = "<NAME_OF_DATABASE>"
    user     = "<NAME_OF_DATABASE_USER>"
    password = "<DATABASE_PASSWORD>"
    scheme   = "postgres"
    access_client_id     = "<ACCESS_CLIENT_ID>"
    access_client_secret = "<ACCESS_CLIENT_SECRET>"
  }
  caching = {
    disabled = false
  }
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

This will create a Hyperdrive configuration using the usual database information (database name, database host, database user, and database password).

In addition, it will also set the Access Client ID and the Access Client Secret of the Service Token. When Hyperdrive makes requests to the tunnel, requests will be intercepted by Access and validated using the credentials of the Service Token.

:::note
When creating the Hyperdrive configuration for the private database, you must enter the `access-client-id` and the `access-client-id`, and omit the `port`. Hyperdrive will route database messages to the public hostname of the tunnel, and the tunnel will rely on its service configuration (as configured in [1.2. Connect your database using a public hostname](#12-connect-your-database-using-a-public-hostname)) to route requests to the database within your private network.
:::

## 5. Query your Hyperdrive configuration from a Worker (optional)

To test your Hyperdrive configuration to the database using Cloudflare Tunnel and Access, use the Hyperdrive configuration ID in your Worker and deploy it.

### Create a Hyperdrive binding

<Render file="create-hyperdrive-binding" product="hyperdrive" />

### Query your database using Postgres.js

Use Postgres.js to send a test query to validate that the connection has been successful.

<Render file="use-postgresjs-to-make-query" product="hyperdrive" />

Now, deploy your Worker:

```bash
npx wrangler deploy
```

If you successfully receive the list of `pg_tables` from your database when you access your deployed Worker, your Hyperdrive has now been configured to securely connect to a private database using [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) and [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues when setting up your Hyperdrive configuration with tunnels to a private database, consider these common solutions, in addition to [general troubleshooting steps](/hyperdrive/observability/troubleshooting/) for Hyperdrive:

- Ensure your database is configured to use TLS (SSL). Hyperdrive requires TLS (SSL) to connect.

Commit message:

Hyperdrive private database support improved UI docs (#19400)
* thomasgauvin: add changelog, changelog-next, updated docs for improved ui hoa experience

* thomasgauvin: fix date

* Update src/content/changelogs-next/2025-01-28-hyperdrive-automated-private-database-configuration.mdx

* Update src/content/changelogs-next/2025-01-28-hyperdrive-automated-private-database-configuration.mdx

* Update src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-private-database.mdx

* Update src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-private-database.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-private-database.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Connect to a private database using Tunnel
sidebar:
  order: 4
  badge:
    text: Beta
---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Render } from "~/components";

Hyperdrive can securely connect to your private databases using [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) and [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/).

## How it works

When your database is isolated within a private network (such as a [virtual private cloud](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cloud/what-is-a-virtual-private-cloud) or an on-premise network), you must enable a secure connection from your network to Cloudflare.

- [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) is used to establish the secure tunnel connection.
- [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/) is used to restrict access to your tunnel such that only specific Hyperdrive configurations can access it.

A request from the Cloudflare Worker to the origin database goes through Hyperdrive, Cloudflare Access, and the Cloudflare Tunnel established by `cloudflared`. `cloudflared` must be running in the private network in which your database is accessible.

The Cloudflare Tunnel will establish an outbound bidirectional connection from your private network to Cloudflare. Cloudflare Access will secure your Cloudflare Tunnel to be only accessible by your Hyperdrive configuration.

![A request from the Cloudflare Worker to the origin database goes through Hyperdrive, Cloudflare Access and the Cloudflare Tunnel established by `cloudflared`.](~/assets/images/hyperdrive/configuration/hyperdrive-private-database-architecture.png)

<Render file="tutorials-before-you-start" product="workers" />

:::caution[Warning]

If your organization also uses [Super Bot Fight Mode](/bots/get-started/pro/), keep **Definitely Automated** set to **Allow**. Otherwise, tunnels might fail with a `websocket: bad handshake` error.
:::

## Prerequisites

- A database in your private network, [configured to use TLS/SSL](/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-postgres/#supported-tls-ssl-modes).
- A hostname on your Cloudflare account, which will be used to route requests to your database.

## 1. Create a tunnel in your private network

### 1.1. Create a tunnel

First, create a [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) in your private network to establish a secure connection between your network and Cloudflare. Your network must be configured such that the tunnel has permissions to egress to the Cloudflare network and access the database within your network.

<Render file="tunnel/create-tunnel" product="cloudflare-one" />

### 1.2. Connect your database using a public hostname

Your tunnel must be configured to use a public hostname so that Hyperdrive can route requests to it. If you don't have a hostname on Cloudflare yet, you will need to [register a new hostname](/registrar/get-started/register-domain/) or [add a zone](/dns/zone-setups/) to Cloudflare to proceed.

1. In the **Public Hostnames** tab, choose a **Domain** and specify any subdomain or path information. This will be used in your Hyperdrive configuration to route to this tunnel.

2. In the **Service** section, specify **Type** `TCP` and the URL and configured port of your database, such as `localhost:5432` or `my-database-host.database-provider.com:5432`. This address will be used by the tunnel to route requests to your database.

3. Select **Save tunnel**.

:::note
If you are setting up the tunnel through the CLI instead ([locally-managed tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/configure-tunnels/local-management/)), you will have to complete these steps manually. Follow the Cloudflare Zero Trust documentation to [add a public hostname to your tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/routing-to-tunnel/dns/) and [configure the public hostname to route to the address of your database](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/configure-tunnels/local-management/configuration-file/).
:::

## 2. Create and configure Hyperdrive to connect to the Cloudflare Tunnel

To restrict access to the Cloudflare Tunnel to Hyperdrive, a [Cloudflare Access application](/cloudflare-one/applications/) must be configured with a [Policy](/cloudflare-one/policies/) that requires requests to contain a valid [Service Auth token](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/#service-auth).

The Cloudflare dashboard can automatically create and configure the underlying [Cloudflare Access application](/cloudflare-one/applications/), [Service Auth token](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/#service-auth), and [Policy](/cloudflare-one/policies/) on your behalf. Alternatively, you can manually create the Access application and configure the Policies.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Automatic creation">

### 2.1 Create a Hyperdrive configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard

Create a Hyperdrive configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard to automatically configure Hyperdrive to connect to your Cloudflare Tunnel.

1. In the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers/hyperdrive), navigate to **Storage & Databases > Hyperdrive** and click **Create configuration**.
2. Select **Private database**.
3. In the **Networking details** section, select the tunnel you are connecting to.
4. In the **Networking details** section, select the hostname associated to the tunnel. If there is no hostname for your database, return to step [1.2. Connect your database using a public hostname](/hyperdrive/configuration/connect-to-private-database/#12-connect-your-database-using-a-public-hostname).
5. In the **Access Service Authentication Token** section, select **Create new (automatic)**.
6. In the **Access Application** section, select **Create new (automatic)**.
7. In the **Database connection details** section, enter the database **name**, **user**, and **password**.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Manual creation">
### 2.1 Create a service token

The service token will be used to restrict requests to the tunnel, and is needed for the next step.

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access** > **Service auth** > **Service Tokens**.

2. Select **Create Service Token**.

3. Name the service token. The name allows you to easily identify events related to the token in the logs and to revoke the token individually.

4. Set a **Service Token Duration** of `Non-expiring`. This prevents the service token from expiring, ensuring it can be used throughout the life of the Hyperdrive configuration.

5. Select **Generate token**. You will see the generated Client ID and Client Secret for the service token, as well as their respective request headers.

6. Copy the Access Client ID and Access Client Secret. These will be used when creating the Hyperdrive configuration.

   :::caution
   This is the only time Cloudflare Access will display the Client Secret. If you lose the Client Secret, you must regenerate the service token.
   :::

### 2.2 Create an Access application to secure the tunnel

[Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/) will be used to verify that requests to the tunnel originate from Hyperdrive using the service token created above.

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Add an application**.

3. Select **Self-hosted**.

4. Enter any name for the application.

5. In **Session Duration**, select `No duration, expires immediately`.

6. Select **Add public hostname**. and enter the subdomain and domain that was previously set for the tunnel application.

7. Select **Create new policy**.

8. Enter a **Policy name** and set the **Action** to _Service Auth_.

9. Create an **Include** rule. Specify a **Selector** of _Service Token_ and the **Value** of the service token you created in step [2. Create a service token](#2-create-a-service-token).

10. Save the policy.

11. Go back to the application configuration and add the newly created Access policy.

12. In **Login methods**, turn off _Accept all available identity providers_ and clear all identity providers.

13. Select **Next**.

14. In **Application Appearance**, turn off **Show application in App Launcher**.

15. Select **Next**.

16. Select **Next**.

17. Save the application.

### 2.3 Create a Hyperdrive configuration

To create a Hyperdrive configuration for your private database, you'll need to specify the Access application and Cloudflare Tunnel information upon creation.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Wrangler">

```sh
# wrangler v3.65 and above required
npx wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME-OF-HYPERDRIVE-CONFIGURATION-FOR-DB-VIA-TUNNEL> --host=<HOSTNAME-FOR-THE-TUNNEL> --user=<USERNAME-FOR-YOUR-DATABASE> --password=<PASSWORD-FOR-YOUR-DATABASE> --database=<DATABASE-TO-CONNECT-TO> --access-client-id=<YOUR-ACCESS-CLIENT-ID> --access-client-secret=<YOUR-SERVICE-TOKEN-CLIENT-SECRET>
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Terraform">

```terraform
resource "cloudflare_hyperdrive_config"  "<TERRAFORM_VARIABLE_NAME_FOR_CONFIGURATION>" {
  account_id = "<YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID>"
  name       = "<NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIGURATION>"
  origin     = {
    host     = "<HOSTNAME_OF_TUNNEL>"
    database = "<NAME_OF_DATABASE>"
    user     = "<NAME_OF_DATABASE_USER>"
    password = "<DATABASE_PASSWORD>"
    scheme   = "postgres"
    access_client_id     = "<ACCESS_CLIENT_ID>"
    access_client_secret = "<ACCESS_CLIENT_SECRET>"
  }
  caching = {
    disabled = false
  }
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

This will create a Hyperdrive configuration using the usual database information (database name, database host, database user, and database password).

In addition, it will also set the Access Client ID and the Access Client Secret of the Service Token. When Hyperdrive makes requests to the tunnel, requests will be intercepted by Access and validated using the credentials of the Service Token.

:::note
When creating the Hyperdrive configuration for the private database, you must enter the `access-client-id` and the `access-client-id`, and omit the `port`. Hyperdrive will route database messages to the public hostname of the tunnel, and the tunnel will rely on its service configuration (as configured in [1.2. Connect your database using a public hostname](#12-connect-your-database-using-a-public-hostname)) to route requests to the database within your private network.
:::

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 3. Query your Hyperdrive configuration from a Worker (optional)

To test your Hyperdrive configuration to the database using Cloudflare Tunnel and Access, use the Hyperdrive configuration ID in your Worker and deploy it.

### Create a Hyperdrive binding

<Render file="create-hyperdrive-binding" product="hyperdrive" />

### Query your database using Postgres.js

Use Postgres.js to send a test query to validate that the connection has been successful.

<Render file="use-postgresjs-to-make-query" product="hyperdrive" />

Now, deploy your Worker:

```bash
npx wrangler deploy
```

If you successfully receive the list of `pg_tables` from your database when you access your deployed Worker, your Hyperdrive has now been configured to securely connect to a private database using [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/) and [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues when setting up your Hyperdrive configuration with tunnels to a private database, consider these common solutions, in addition to [general troubleshooting steps](/hyperdrive/observability/troubleshooting/) for Hyperdrive:

- Ensure your database is configured to use TLS (SSL). Hyperdrive requires TLS (SSL) to connect.
