src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/local-development.mdx, before:

---
title: Local development
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

Hyperdrive can be used when developing and testing your Workers locally by connecting to any local database instance running on your machine directly. Local development uses [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the command-line interface for Workers, to manage local development sessions and state.

## Configure local development

:::note

This guide assumes you are using `wrangler` version `3.27.0` or later.

If you are new to Hyperdrive and/or Cloudflare Workers, refer to [Hyperdrive tutorial](/hyperdrive/get-started/) to install `wrangler` and deploy their first database.

:::

To specify a database to connect to when developing locally, you can:

- **Recommended** Create a `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` environmental variable with the connection string of your database. `<BINDING_NAME>` is the name of the binding assigned to your Hyperdrive in your `wrangler.toml` or Pages configuration. This allows you to avoid committing potentially sensitive credentials to source control in your `wrangler.toml`, if your test/development database is not ephemeral. If you have configured multiple Hyperdrive bindings, replace `<BINDING_NAME>` with the unique binding name for each.
- Set `localConnectionString` in `wrangler.toml`.

If both the `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` environmental variable and `localConnectionString` in `wrangler.toml` are set, `wrangler dev` will use the environmental variable instead. Use `unset WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` to unset any existing environmental variables.

For example, to use the environmental variable, export the environmental variable before running `wrangler dev`:

```sh
# Your configured Hyperdrive binding is "TEST_DB"
export WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB="postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
# Start a local development session referencing this local instance
npx wrangler dev
```

To configure a `localConnectionString` in `wrangler.toml`, ensure your Hyperdrive bindings have a `localConnectionString` property set:

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "TEST_DB"
id = "c020574a-5623-407b-be0c-cd192bab9545"
localConnectionString = "postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
```

</WranglerConfig>

## Use `wrangler dev`

The following example shows you how to check your wrangler version, set a `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB` environmental variable, and run a `wrangler dev` session:

```sh
# Confirm you are using wrangler v3.0+
npx wrangler --version
```

```sh output
⛅️ wrangler 3.27.0
```

```sh
# Set your environmental variable: your configured Hyperdrive binding is "TEST_DB".
export WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB="postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
```

```sh
# Start a local dev session:
npx wrangler dev
```

```sh output
------------------
Found a non-empty WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB variable. Hyperdrive will connect to this database
during local development.

wrangler dev now uses local mode by default, powered by 🔥 Miniflare and 👷 workerd.
To run an edge preview session for your Worker, use wrangler dev --remote
Your worker has access to the following bindings:
- Hyperdrive configs:
  - TEST_DB: c020574a-5623-407b-be0c-cd192bab9545
⎔ Starting local server...

[mf:inf] Ready on http://127.0.0.1:8787/
[b] open a browser, [d] open Devtools, [l] turn off local mode, [c] clear console, [x] to exit
```

`wrangler dev` separates local and production (remote) data. A local session does not have access to your production data by default. To access your production (remote) Hyperdrive configuration, pass the `--remote` flag when calling `wrangler dev`. Any changes you make when running in `--remote` mode cannot be undone.

Refer to the [`wrangler dev` documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to learn more about how to configure a local development session.

## Related resources

- Use [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to run your Worker and Hyperdrive locally and debug issues before deploying.
- Learn [how Hyperdrive works](/hyperdrive/configuration/how-hyperdrive-works/).
- Understand how to [configure query caching in Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/configuration/query-caching/).

Commit message:

[All] Cleaning up references to wrangler.toml. (#19403)
* Cleaning up references to wrangler.toml.

* Removing erroneous import line.

* Making sure all imports are at the top of the page.

* Catching more instances of wrangler.toml.

* Fixing typo

* Update src/content/docs/workers/platform/pricing.mdx

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/workers/languages/python/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

* Syntax formatting and edit for accuracy.

* Updating language to `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json`

---------

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/hyperdrive/configuration/local-development.mdx, after:

---
title: Local development
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

Hyperdrive can be used when developing and testing your Workers locally by connecting to any local database instance running on your machine directly. Local development uses [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the command-line interface for Workers, to manage local development sessions and state.

## Configure local development

:::note

This guide assumes you are using `wrangler` version `3.27.0` or later.

If you are new to Hyperdrive and/or Cloudflare Workers, refer to [Hyperdrive tutorial](/hyperdrive/get-started/) to install `wrangler` and deploy their first database.

:::

To specify a database to connect to when developing locally, you can:

- **Recommended** Create a `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` environmental variable with the connection string of your database. `<BINDING_NAME>` is the name of the binding assigned to your Hyperdrive in your `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file or Pages configuration. This allows you to avoid committing potentially sensitive credentials to source control in your `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file, if your test/development database is not ephemeral. If you have configured multiple Hyperdrive bindings, replace `<BINDING_NAME>` with the unique binding name for each.
- Set `localConnectionString` in the `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file.

If both the `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` environmental variable and `localConnectionString` in the `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file are set, `wrangler dev` will use the environmental variable instead. Use `unset WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>` to unset any existing environmental variables.

For example, to use the environmental variable, export the environmental variable before running `wrangler dev`:

```sh
# Your configured Hyperdrive binding is "TEST_DB"
export WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB="postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
# Start a local development session referencing this local instance
npx wrangler dev
```

To configure a `localConnectionString` in the `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file, ensure your Hyperdrive bindings have a `localConnectionString` property set:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "TEST_DB"
id = "c020574a-5623-407b-be0c-cd192bab9545"
localConnectionString = "postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
```

</WranglerConfig>

## Use `wrangler dev`

The following example shows you how to check your wrangler version, set a `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB` environmental variable, and run a `wrangler dev` session:

```sh
# Confirm you are using wrangler v3.0+
npx wrangler --version
```

```sh output
⛅️ wrangler 3.27.0
```

```sh
# Set your environmental variable: your configured Hyperdrive binding is "TEST_DB".
export WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB="postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
```

```sh
# Start a local dev session:
npx wrangler dev
```

```sh output
------------------
Found a non-empty WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_TEST_DB variable. Hyperdrive will connect to this database
during local development.

wrangler dev now uses local mode by default, powered by 🔥 Miniflare and 👷 workerd.
To run an edge preview session for your Worker, use wrangler dev --remote
Your worker has access to the following bindings:
- Hyperdrive configs:
  - TEST_DB: c020574a-5623-407b-be0c-cd192bab9545
⎔ Starting local server...

[mf:inf] Ready on http://127.0.0.1:8787/
[b] open a browser, [d] open Devtools, [l] turn off local mode, [c] clear console, [x] to exit
```

`wrangler dev` separates local and production (remote) data. A local session does not have access to your production data by default. To access your production (remote) Hyperdrive configuration, pass the `--remote` flag when calling `wrangler dev`. Any changes you make when running in `--remote` mode cannot be undone.

Refer to the [`wrangler dev` documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to learn more about how to configure a local development session.

## Related resources

- Use [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to run your Worker and Hyperdrive locally and debug issues before deploying.
- Learn [how Hyperdrive works](/hyperdrive/configuration/how-hyperdrive-works/).
- Understand how to [configure query caching in Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/configuration/query-caching/).
