src/content/docs/support/account-management-billing/cannot-locate-dashboard-account.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Cannot locate dashboard account

---

We are making some improvements to our support experience. This could be causing a temporary issue linking your [dashboard account](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and your Cloudflare [Help Center My Activities sign-on information](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/requests).

## Accounts with paid services

If you have an account with paid services:

1. Open a case with us through our [support portal](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/support).
2. Choose **Account** > **Support Platform** > **Other**.
3. For **Is your issue domain related?**, select "No".
4. For **Summary**, enter "Can't access Cloudflare Help Center My Activities."
5. Select **Add more details** or **Open a Case**.
6. For **Description**, enter "Can't access Cloudflare Help Center My Activities" and follow the process mentioned for [Cannot locate dashboard account](/support/account-management-billing/cannot-locate-dashboard-account/)"
7. Select **Submit Case**.

This process will allow us to link your account inside our new support system.

## Free accounts

If you are a free account customer, you do not have access to this feature, but you can get assistance in many other ways:

* By joining the conversation in our [Community forums](https://community.cloudflare.com/).
* By joining our [Discord server](https://discord.cloudflare.com/).
* By checking out our [Documentation](/).
* By visiting the [Cloudflare Help Center](https://support.cloudflare.com/). There you will find our most frequently asked questions, steps to issue resolution, and more.

Commit message:

Update cannot-locate-dashboard-account.mdx (#19481)
Description field requires at least 20 words.
The suggestion in the documentation does not have 20 words.

src/content/docs/support/account-management-billing/cannot-locate-dashboard-account.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Cannot locate dashboard account

---

We are making some improvements to our support experience. This could be causing a temporary issue linking your [dashboard account](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and your Cloudflare [Help Center My Activities sign-on information](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/requests).

## Accounts with paid services

If you have an account with paid services:

1. Open a case with us through our [support portal](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/support).
2. Choose **Account** > **Support Platform** > **Other**.
3. For **Is your issue domain related?**, select "No".
4. For **Summary**, enter "Can't access Cloudflare Help Center My Activities."
5. Select **Add more details** or **Open a Case**.
6. For **Description**, enter a brief description of the issue using at least 20 words.
7. Select **Submit Case**.

This process will allow us to link your account inside our new support system.

## Free accounts

If you are a free account customer, you do not have access to this feature, but you can get assistance in many other ways:

* By joining the conversation in our [Community forums](https://community.cloudflare.com/).
* By joining our [Discord server](https://discord.cloudflare.com/).
* By checking out our [Documentation](/).
* By visiting the [Cloudflare Help Center](https://support.cloudflare.com/). There you will find our most frequently asked questions, steps to issue resolution, and more.
