src/content/partials/cloudflare-one/gateway/lists.mdx, before:

---
{}
---

import { TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

## Create a list from a CSV file

Here is a [sample CSV file](/cloudflare-one/static/list-test.csv) of URLs that you can use for testing. When formatting the CSV:

- Each line should be a single entry.
- Trailing whitespaces are not allowed.
- CRLF (Windows) and LF (Unix) line endings are valid.

To upload the list to Zero Trust:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **My Team** > **Lists**.
2. Select **Upload CSV**.
3. Next, specify a **List name**, enter an optional description, and choose a **List type**.
4. Drag and drop a file into the **CSV file** window, or select a file.
5. Select **Create**.

You can now use this list in the policy builder by choosing the _in list_ operator.

## Create a list manually

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **My Team** > **Lists**.
2. Select **Create manual list**.
3. Next, specify a **List name**, enter an optional description, and choose a **List type**.
4. Enter your list element manually into the **Add entry** field and select **Add**.
5. Select **Save**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/lists \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "description": "Private application IPs",
  "items": [{"value": "10.226.0.177/32"},{"value": "10.226.1.177/32"}],
  "name": "Corporate IP list",
  "type": "IP"
}'
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

You can now use this list in the policy builder by choosing the _in list_ operator.

Commit message:

[ZT] Update test list CSV (#19435)

src/content/partials/cloudflare-one/gateway/lists.mdx, after:

---
{}
---

import { TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

## Create a list from a CSV file

To test uploading CSV lists, you can download a [sample CSV file](/cloudflare-one/static/list-test.csv) of IP address ranges or copy the following into a file:

```csv title="list-test.csv"
value,description
192.0.2.0/24,This is an IP address range in CIDR format
198.51.100.0/24,This is also an IP address range
203.0.113.0/24,This is the third IP address range

```

When you format a CSV file for upload:

- Each line should be a single entry that includes a value and an optional description.
- A header row must be present for Zero Trust to recognize descriptions.
- Trailing whitespace characters are not allowed.
- CRLF (Windows) and LF (Unix) line endings are valid.

To upload the list to Zero Trust:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **My Team** > **Lists**.
2. Select **Upload CSV**.
3. Next, specify a **List name**, enter an optional description, and choose a **List type**.
4. Drag and drop a file into the **CSV file** window, or select a file.
5. Select **Create**.

You can now use this list in the policy builder by choosing the _in list_ operator.

## Create a list manually

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **My Team** > **Lists**.
2. Select **Create manual list**.
3. Next, specify a **List name**, enter an optional description, and choose a **List type**.
4. Enter your list element manually into the **Add entry** field and select **Add**.
5. Select **Save**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/lists \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "description": "Private application IPs",
  "items": [{"value": "10.226.0.177/32"},{"value": "10.226.1.177/32"}],
  "name": "Corporate IP list",
  "type": "IP"
}'
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

You can now use this list in the policy builder by choosing the _in list_ operator.
