src/content/partials/network-interconnect/bgp-peering.mdx, before:

---
params:
  - productName
  - productPath
  - legacyHCs
  - asnProduct
  - mtLimitations
  - productGatewayOrEgress
---

import { Markdown } from "~/components";

{props.productName} customers can use the Cloudflare dashboard to configure and manage BGP peering between their networks and their Magic routing table when using a Direct CNI on-ramp.

Using BGP peering with a CNI allows customers to:
- Automate the process of adding or removing networks and subnets.
- Take advantage of failure detection and session recovery features.

With this functionality, customers can:
- Establish an eBGP session between their devices and the {props.productName} service when connected via CNI.
- Secure the session by MD5 authentication to prevent misconfigurations.
- Exchange routes dynamically between their devices and their Magic routing table.

## Route distribution and convergence

Routes received from the customer device will be redistributed into the Magic routing table, which is used by both Magic WAN and Magic Transit.

All routes in the Magic routing table are advertised to BGP peers. Each BGP peer will receive each prefix route along with the full `AS_PATH`, with the selected Cloudflare side [ASN](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-an-autonomous-system/) prepended. This is so that the peer can accurately perform [loop prevention](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4271#section-9.1.2).

BGP peering sessions can advertise reachable prefixes to a peer and withdraw previously advertised prefixes. This should not take more than a few minutes to propagate.

## BGP timers and settings

Cloudflare uses the timers as described below. These are not configurable:

| Setting 				 | Description |
| --- 						 | --- |
| **Hold timer** 			 | 240 seconds <br /> (_To establish a session, Cloudflare will compare our hold timer and the peer's hold timer, and use the smaller of the two values to establish the BGP session._) |
| **Keepalive timer**  | One third of the hold time. |
| **Graceful restart** | 120 seconds |

- **Hold timer**: Specifies the maximum amount of time that a BGP peer will wait to receive a keepalive, update, or notification message before declaring the BGP session down. Cloudflare will use the smaller of this default hold time and that received from the peer in the open message.
- **Keepalive timer**: BGP systems exchange keepalive messages to determine whether the peer router is reachable. If keepalive messages are not received within the Hold Timer, the session is assumed to be down, indicating that the peer is no longer reachable at the BGP protocol level.
- **Graceful restart timer**: Tracks how long a router will wait for a peer to re-establish a BGP session after the peer initiates a graceful restart. If the peer does not reconnect within this time, the router declares the session down and removes stale routes.


## Limitations

BGP multipath is supported. If the same prefix is learned on two different interconnects then traffic destined for that prefix will be distributed across each interconnect according to the usual ECMP behavior.

BGP support currently has the following limitations:
- The Cloudflare account ASN and the customer device ASN must be different. Only eBGP is supported.
- Routes are always injected with a priority of `100`.
- Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) is not supported.
- 4-byte ASNs are not supported.

<Markdown text={props.mtLimitations} />

## Tunnel health checks

{props.productName} customers need to enable legacy <a href={props.legacyHCs}>health checks</a> alongside BGP. This is essential to determine if a specific Cloudflare data center is reachable from a customer device or not. <a href={props.productPath}>Tunnel health checks</a> will modify the route's priorities for dynamically learned BGP routes.

## How to choose an ASN for BGP peering

The Magic routing table is managed by the customer, who can select both the Cloudflare-side ASN and the ASN for their customer device.

By default, each BGP peering session will use the same Cloudflare-side ASN to represent peering with the {props.productName} routing table. This default ASN is called the **CF Account ASN** and should be configured to a private 2-byte ASN (for example, any values between `64512` and `65534`). To set this ASN:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), and select your account.
2. Go to **{props.productName}** > **Configuration** > **BGP**.
3. In **CF Account ASN**, enter Cloudflare's ASN.
4. Select **Update**.

<Markdown text={props.asnProduct} />

## How to set up BGP peering

:::caution
BGP peering is only available to {props.productName} customers with Direct CNI as an on-ramp. If your network is set up with GRE or IPsec tunnels, you cannot use BGP peering.
:::

You need to configure two ASNs:
- The Cloudflare [account-scoped ASN](#how-to-choose-an-asn-for-bgp-peering) named **CF Account ASN**.
- One ASN for each interconnect you want to configure with BGP.

If you already have set up your Cloudflare account ASN, you can skip steps two and three below.

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login), and select your account.
2. Go to **{props.productName}** > **Configuration** > **BGP**.
3. In **CF Account ASN**, enter Cloudflare's ASN.
4. Go to **Interconnects**.
5. Find the Direct CNI interconnect you want to configure with BGP > select the **three dots** next to it > **Configure BGP**.
6. In **Customer device ASN**, enter the ASN for your network.
7. In **MD5 key**, you can optionally enter the key for your network. Note that this is meant to prevent accidental misconfigurations, and is not a security mechanism.
8. (Optional) In **Advertised prefix list**, input the additional prefixes automatically assigned by Cloudflare during the creation of the CNI interconnect, to advertise alongside your existing routes. Leave blank if you do not want to advertise extra routes. <br /> Typical prefixes to configure here include:
	- A route to `0.0.0.0/0`, the default route — to attract all Internet-bound traffic if using {props.productGatewayOrEgress}.
	- A route to `100.96.0.0/12`, the portion of CGNAT space [used by default with WARP clients](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/warp-connector/user-to-site/#add-route-to-router).
9. Select **Enable BGP**.

Commit message:

[Magic] BGP Magic routing table info vs PNI peering (#19548)
* added routing table info

* refined text

* added links

* Update src/content/partials/network-interconnect/bgp-peering.mdx

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

src/content/partials/network-interconnect/bgp-peering.mdx, after:

---
params:
  - productName
  - productPath
  - legacyHCs
  - asnProduct
  - mtLimitations
  - productGatewayOrEgress
---

import { Markdown } from "~/components";

{props.productName} customers can use the Cloudflare dashboard to configure and manage BGP peering between their networks and their Magic routing table when using a Direct CNI on-ramp.

Using BGP peering with a CNI allows customers to:
- Automate the process of adding or removing networks and subnets.
- Take advantage of failure detection and session recovery features.

With this functionality, customers can:
- Establish an eBGP session between their devices and the {props.productName} service when connected via CNI.
- Secure the session by MD5 authentication to prevent misconfigurations.
- Exchange routes dynamically between their devices and their Magic routing table.

## Peering with the Magic routing table

For both Magic WAN and Magic Transit use cases, BGP peering is with the Magic networking routing table (as opposed to peering with the Cloudflare Internet global network).

The Magic networking routing table is a virtual network overlay, private to your account, that spans all Cloudflare data centers globally. This overlay network provides:

- Magic Transit packet delivery for [DoS](/ddos-protection/) and [Magic Firewall](/magic-firewall/) filtered Internet traffic, from the entry data center where the traffic ingressed, to your publicly addressed edge/border network via tunnels (GRE/IPsec) or interconnect (CNI).
- Magic WAN packet transport between Magic tunnels, interconnects, [Cloudflare Load Balancer](/load-balancing/), and [Zero Trust](/cloudflare-one/) connections such as [WARP Client](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/), [Remote Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/), [Access](/cloudflare-one/policies/access/), and [Gateway](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/).

The Magic routing table supports IPv4 routes to:

- [RFC 1918](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1918) address space
- [BYOIP](/byoip/) public address space which you have onboarded to Cloudflare Magic Transit

BGP peers configured by following this guide will receive advertisements for all prefixes in the Magic routing table plus any additional prefixes configured in the per-interconnect [Advertised prefix list](#how-to-set-up-bgp-peering).

If instead you are seeking to do public peering with the Cloudflare ASN 13335 at one of the Cloudflare data centers, refer to [PNI and peering setup](/network-interconnect/pni-and-peering/). Note that it is not currently possible to share Magic network BGP peering and PNI on the same physical interconnect port.

## Route distribution and convergence

Routes received from the customer device will be redistributed into the Magic routing table, which is used by both Magic WAN and Magic Transit.

All routes in the Magic routing table are advertised to BGP peers. Each BGP peer will receive each prefix route along with the full `AS_PATH`, with the selected Cloudflare side [ASN](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-an-autonomous-system/) prepended. This is so that the peer can accurately perform [loop prevention](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4271#section-9.1.2).

BGP peering sessions can advertise reachable prefixes to a peer and withdraw previously advertised prefixes. This should not take more than a few minutes to propagate.

## BGP timers and settings

Cloudflare uses the timers as described below. These are not configurable:

| Setting 				 | Description |
| --- 						 | --- |
| **Hold timer** 			 | 240 seconds <br /> (_To establish a session, Cloudflare will compare our hold timer and the peer's hold timer, and use the smaller of the two values to establish the BGP session._) |
| **Keepalive timer**  | One third of the hold time. |
| **Graceful restart** | 120 seconds |

- **Hold timer**: Specifies the maximum amount of time that a BGP peer will wait to receive a keepalive, update, or notification message before declaring the BGP session down. Cloudflare will use the smaller of this default hold time and that received from the peer in the open message.
- **Keepalive timer**: BGP systems exchange keepalive messages to determine whether the peer router is reachable. If keepalive messages are not received within the Hold Timer, the session is assumed to be down, indicating that the peer is no longer reachable at the BGP protocol level.
- **Graceful restart timer**: Tracks how long a router will wait for a peer to re-establish a BGP session after the peer initiates a graceful restart. If the peer does not reconnect within this time, the router declares the session down and removes stale routes.


## Limitations

BGP multipath is supported. If the same prefix is learned on two different interconnects then traffic destined for that prefix will be distributed across each interconnect according to the usual ECMP behavior.

BGP support currently has the following limitations:
- The Cloudflare account ASN and the customer device ASN must be different. Only eBGP is supported.
- Routes are always injected with a priority of `100`.
- Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) is not supported.
- 4-byte ASNs are not supported.

<Markdown text={props.mtLimitations} />

## Tunnel health checks

{props.productName} customers need to enable legacy <a href={props.legacyHCs}>health checks</a> alongside BGP. This is essential to determine if a specific Cloudflare data center is reachable from a customer device or not. <a href={props.productPath}>Tunnel health checks</a> will modify the route's priorities for dynamically learned BGP routes.

## How to choose an ASN for BGP peering

The Magic routing table is managed by the customer, who can select both the Cloudflare-side ASN and the ASN for their customer device.

By default, each BGP peering session will use the same Cloudflare-side ASN to represent peering with the {props.productName} routing table. This default ASN is called the **CF Account ASN** and should be configured to a private 2-byte ASN (for example, any values between `64512` and `65534`). To set this ASN:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), and select your account.
2. Go to **{props.productName}** > **Configuration** > **BGP**.
3. In **CF Account ASN**, enter Cloudflare's ASN.
4. Select **Update**.

<Markdown text={props.asnProduct} />

## How to set up BGP peering

:::caution
BGP peering is only available to {props.productName} customers with Direct CNI as an on-ramp. If your network is set up with GRE or IPsec tunnels, you cannot use BGP peering.
:::

You need to configure two ASNs:
- The Cloudflare [account-scoped ASN](#how-to-choose-an-asn-for-bgp-peering) named **CF Account ASN**.
- One ASN for each interconnect you want to configure with BGP.

If you already have set up your Cloudflare account ASN, you can skip steps two and three below.

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login), and select your account.
2. Go to **{props.productName}** > **Configuration** > **BGP**.
3. In **CF Account ASN**, enter Cloudflare's ASN.
4. Go to **Interconnects**.
5. Find the Direct CNI interconnect you want to configure with BGP > select the **three dots** next to it > **Configure BGP**.
6. In **Customer device ASN**, enter the ASN for your network.
7. In **MD5 key**, you can optionally enter the key for your network. Note that this is meant to prevent accidental misconfigurations, and is not a security mechanism.
8. (Optional) In **Advertised prefix list**, input the additional prefixes automatically assigned by Cloudflare during the creation of the CNI interconnect, to advertise alongside your existing routes. Leave blank if you do not want to advertise extra routes. <br /> Typical prefixes to configure here include:
	- A route to `0.0.0.0/0`, the default route — to attract all Internet-bound traffic if using {props.productGatewayOrEgress}.
	- A route to `100.96.0.0/12`, the portion of CGNAT space [used by default with WARP clients](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/warp-connector/user-to-site/#add-route-to-router).
9. Select **Enable BGP**.
