src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/logpush.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Logpush integration
sidebar:
  order: 8
---

:::note
Only available on Enterprise plans.
:::

With Cloudflare's [Logpush](/logs/about/) service, you can configure the automatic export of Zero Trust logs to third-party storage destinations or to security information and event management (SIEM) tools. Once exported, your team can analyze and audit the data as needed.

## Export Zero Trust logs with Logpush

:::caution[Dashboard limitation]
Zero Trust does not support configuring [Cloudflare R2](/logs/get-started/enable-destinations/r2/) as a Logpush destination in the dashboard. To use R2 as a destination for Zero Trust logs, configure your Logpush jobs [with the API](/logs/get-started/enable-destinations/r2/#manage-via-api).
:::

To enable Logpush for Zero Trust logs:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Logs** > **Logpush**.
2. Select **Add Logpush job**.
3. Enter a **Job name**.
4. From the drop-down menu, choose the [dataset](#zero-trust-datasets) to export.
5. Next, select the data fields you want to include in the log.
6. In **Advanced settings**, choose the timestamp format you prefer, and whether you want to enable logs sampling.
7. Select **Next**.
8. Select the service you want to export your logs to.
9. Follow the service-specific instructions in Zero Trust to validate your destination.

The setup of your Logpush integration is now complete. Logpush will send updated logs every five minutes to your selected destination.

You can configure multiple destinations and add additional fields to your logs by returning to the **Logpush** page.

## Zero Trust datasets

Refer to the Logpush documentation for a list of available fields.

| Dataset                                                                         | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Gateway DNS](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_dns/)                  | DNS queries inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                    |
| [Gateway HTTP](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_http/)                | HTTP requests inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                  |
| [Gateway Network](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_network/)          | Network packets inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                |
| [Audit Logs](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/audit_logs/)                    | Authentication events through Cloudflare Access                |
| [Access Requests](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/access_requests/)          | HTTP requests to sites protected by Cloudflare Access          |
| [CASB Findings](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/casb_findings/)              | Security issues detected by Cloudflare CASB                    |
| [Device Posture](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/device_posture_results/)    | Device posture status from the WARP client                     |
| [Session Logs](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/zero_trust_network_sessions/) | Network session logs for traffic proxied by Cloudflare Gateway |

## Parse DNS logs

Logpush logs the following fields for each DNS query:

- Query name
- Query type
- Query class
- Response TTL
- Response data

DNS query resource records are available in [Base64-encoded binary format](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035#section-4.1.3) and JSON. For example:

```json
{
	"ResourceRecords": [
		{
			"type": "5",
			"data": "d3d3LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tAAABAAUAAABleGFtcGxlLmNvbQ=="
		},
		{
			"type": "1",
			"data": "ZXhhbXBsZS5jb20AAAEAAQAAAQIDBAUGBwgJ"
		}
	],
	"ResourceRecordsJSON": "[{\"name\":\"www.example.com\",\"type\":\"CNAME\",\"class\":\"IN\",\"ttl\":300,\"rdata\":\"example.com.\"},{\"name\":\"example.com\",\"type\":\"A\",\"class\":\"IN\",\"ttl\":300,\"rdata\":\"203.0.113.0\"}]"
}
```

Commit message:

[ZT] Access for Infrastructure logpush dataset (#19579)
* Update logpush.mdx

* Update logpush.mdx

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/logpush.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Logpush integration
sidebar:
  order: 8
---

:::note
Only available on Enterprise plans.
:::

With Cloudflare's [Logpush](/logs/about/) service, you can configure the automatic export of Zero Trust logs to third-party storage destinations or to security information and event management (SIEM) tools. Once exported, your team can analyze and audit the data as needed.

## Export Zero Trust logs with Logpush

:::caution[Dashboard limitation]
Zero Trust does not support configuring [Cloudflare R2](/logs/get-started/enable-destinations/r2/) as a Logpush destination in the dashboard. To use R2 as a destination for Zero Trust logs, configure your Logpush jobs [with the API](/logs/get-started/enable-destinations/r2/#manage-via-api).
:::

To enable Logpush for Zero Trust logs:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Logs** > **Logpush**.
2. Select **Add Logpush job**.
3. Enter a **Job name**.
4. From the drop-down menu, choose the [dataset](#zero-trust-datasets) to export.
5. Next, select the data fields you want to include in the log.
6. In **Advanced settings**, choose the timestamp format you prefer, and whether you want to enable logs sampling.
7. Select **Next**.
8. Select the service you want to export your logs to.
9. Follow the service-specific instructions in Zero Trust to validate your destination.

The setup of your Logpush integration is now complete. Logpush will send updated logs every five minutes to your selected destination.

You can configure multiple destinations and add additional fields to your logs by returning to the **Logpush** page.

## Zero Trust datasets

Refer to the Logpush documentation for a list of available fields.

| Dataset                                                                         | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Gateway DNS](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_dns/)                  | DNS queries inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                    |
| [Gateway HTTP](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_http/)                | HTTP requests inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                  |
| [Gateway Network](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/gateway_network/)          | Network packets inspected by Cloudflare Gateway                |
| [Audit Logs](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/audit_logs/)                    | Authentication events through Cloudflare Access                |
| [Access Requests](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/access_requests/)          | HTTP requests to sites protected by Cloudflare Access          |
| [CASB Findings](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/casb_findings/)              | Security issues detected by Cloudflare CASB                    |
| [Device Posture](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/device_posture_results/)    | Device posture status from the WARP client                     |
| [Session Logs](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/zero_trust_network_sessions/) | Network session logs for traffic proxied by Cloudflare Gateway |
| [SSH Logs](/logs/reference/log-fields/account/ssh_logs/)                        | SSH command logs for [Access for Infrastructure targets](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/ssh-infrastructure-access/) | 

## Parse DNS logs

Logpush logs the following fields for each DNS query:

- Query name
- Query type
- Query class
- Response TTL
- Response data

DNS query resource records are available in [Base64-encoded binary format](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035#section-4.1.3) and JSON. For example:

```json
{
	"ResourceRecords": [
		{
			"type": "5",
			"data": "d3d3LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tAAABAAUAAABleGFtcGxlLmNvbQ=="
		},
		{
			"type": "1",
			"data": "ZXhhbXBsZS5jb20AAAEAAQAAAQIDBAUGBwgJ"
		}
	],
	"ResourceRecordsJSON": "[{\"name\":\"www.example.com\",\"type\":\"CNAME\",\"class\":\"IN\",\"ttl\":300,\"rdata\":\"example.com.\"},{\"name\":\"example.com\",\"type\":\"A\",\"class\":\"IN\",\"ttl\":300,\"rdata\":\"203.0.113.0\"}]"
}
```
