src/content/docs/durable-objects/get-started/tutorial.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, TabItem, Tabs, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

This guide will instruct you through:

- Writing a Durable Object class.
- Writing a Worker which invokes methods on a Durable Object.
- Deploying a Durable Object.

## Prerequisites

<Render file="prereqs" product="workers" />

## 1. Enable Durable Objects in the dashboard

To enable Durable Objects, you will need to purchase the Workers Paid plan:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), and select your account.
2. Go to **Workers & Pages** > **Plans**.
3. Select **Purchase Workers Paid** and complete the payment process to enable Durable Objects.

## 2. Create a Worker project

Durable Objects are accessed from a [Worker](/workers/).

To create a Worker project, run:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"durable-object-starter"}
/>

Running `create cloudflare@latest` will install [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the Workers CLI. You will use Wrangler to test and deploy your project.

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Hello World Worker using Durable Objects",
		lang: "JavaScript / TypeScript",
	}}
/>

This will create a new directory, which will include either a `src/index.js` or `src/index.ts` file to write your code and a [`wrangler.json`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Move into your new directory:

```sh
cd durable-object-starter
```

## 3. Write a Durable Object class

Durable Objects are defined by a exporting a standard JavaScript class which extends from the `DurableObject` base class.

:::note

If you do not use JavaScript or TypeScript, you will need a [shim](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shim) to translate your class definition to a JavaScript class.
:::

Your `MyDurableObject` class will have a constructor with two parameters. The first parameter, `state`, passed to the class constructor contains state specific to the Durable Object, including methods for accessing storage. The second parameter, `env`, contains any bindings you have associated with the Worker when you uploaded it.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state, env) {}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

Workers can invoke public methods defined on a Durable Object via Remote Procedure Call (RPC).

The `sayHello` method demonstrates this capability:

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state, env) {}

	async sayHello() {
		return "Hello, World!";
	}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {}

	async sayHello(): Promise<string> {
		return "Hello, World!";
	}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 4. Invoke methods on a Durable Object class

As mentioned previously, methods on a Durable Object class are invoked by a Worker. This is done by creating an ID refering to an instance of the Durable Object class, getting a stub that refers to a particular instance of a Durable Object class, and invoking methods on that stub.

The fetch handler should look like the following:

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
// Worker
export default {
	async fetch(request, env) {
		// Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
		const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

		// A stub is a client used to invoke methods on the Durable Object
		const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);

		// Methods on the Durable Object are invoked via the stub
		const rpcResponse = await stub.sayHello();

		return new Response(rpcResponse);
	},
};
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
// Worker
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
		const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

		// A stub is a client used to invoke methods on the Durable Object
		const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);

		// Methods on the Durable Object are invoked via the stub
		const rpcResponse = await stub.sayHello();

		return new Response(rpcResponse);
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 5. Configure Durable Object bindings

To allow a Worker to invoke methods on a Durable Object, the Worker must have a [Durable Object binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) in the project's [`wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects). The binding is configured to use a particular Durable Object class.

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[durable_objects.bindings]]
name = "MY_DURABLE_OBJECT"
class_name = "MyDurableObject"
```

</WranglerConfig>

The `[[durable_objects.bindings]]` section contains the following fields:

- `name` - Required. The binding name to use within your Worker.
- `class_name` - Required. The class name you wish to bind to.
- `script_name` - Optional. The name of the Worker if the Durable Object is external to this Worker.
- `environment` - Optional. The environment of the `script_name` to bind to.

Refer to [Wrangler Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects) for more detail.

## 6. Configure Durable Object classes with migrations

A migration is a mapping process from a class name to a runtime state. You perform a migration when creating a new Durable Object class, or when renaming, deleting or transferring an existing Durable Object class.

Migrations are performed through the `[[migrations]]` configurations key in your Wrangler file.

The Durable Object migration to create a new Durable Object class will look like the following in your Worker's Wrangler file:



<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[migrations]]
tag = "v1" # Should be unique for each entry
new_classes = ["MyDurableObject"] # Array of new classes
```

</WranglerConfig>

### 6.a Optional: Configure new Durable Object class for SQL storage

:::note[SQLite in Durable Objects Beta]

New beta version of Durable Objects is available where each Durable Object has a private, embedded SQLite database. SQL storage is opt-in during beta; otherwise, a Durable Object class has the standard, private key-value storage. Objects can access long-lived durable storage with the [Storage API](/durable-objects/api/storage-api/).

:::

A Durable Object class can only have a single storage type, which cannot be changed after the Durable Object class is created.

To configure SQL storage and API, replace `new_classes` with `new_sqlite_classes` in your Worker's Wrangler file:



<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[migrations]]
tag = "v1" # Should be unique for each entry
new_sqlite_classes = ["MyDurableObject"] # Array of new classes
```

</WranglerConfig>

Refer to [Durable Objects migrations](/durable-objects/reference/durable-objects-migrations/) to learn more about the migration process.

## 7. Develop a Durable Object Worker locally

To test your Durable Object locally, run [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev):

```sh
npx wrangler dev
```

In your console, you should see a`Hello world` string returned by the Durable Object.

## 8. Deploy your Durable Object Worker

To deploy your Durable Object Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Once deployed, you should be able to see your newly created Durable Object Worker on the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), **Workers & Pages** > **Overview**.

Preview your Durable Object Worker at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`.

By finishing this tutorial, you have successfully created, tested and deployed a Durable Object.

### Related resources

- [Send requests to Durable Objects](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs-and-send-requests/)
- [Miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/miniflare) - Helpful tools for mocking and testing your Durable Objects.

Commit message:

[Durable Objects] Adding "What are Durable Objects" chapter. (#19570)
* Setting up new page.

* Adding the bulk of the chapter.

* Update src/content/docs/durable-objects/what-are-durable-objects.mdx

Co-authored-by: hyperlint-ai[bot] <154288675+hyperlint-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/durable-objects/what-are-durable-objects.mdx

Co-authored-by: hyperlint-ai[bot] <154288675+hyperlint-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/durable-objects/what-are-durable-objects.mdx

Co-authored-by: hyperlint-ai[bot] <154288675+hyperlint-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* Adding links from other pages to the new chapter.

* Update src/content/docs/durable-objects/what-are-durable-objects.mdx

Co-authored-by: hyperlint-ai[bot] <154288675+hyperlint-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* Implementing the feedback part 1.

* Removing unnecessary italics.

* Making key-value consistent with rest of Docs.

* Adding supplementary info on DO storage.

---------

Co-authored-by: hyperlint-ai[bot] <154288675+hyperlint-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/durable-objects/get-started/tutorial.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, TabItem, Tabs, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

This guide will instruct you through:

- Writing a Durable Object class.
- Writing a Worker which invokes methods on a Durable Object.
- Deploying a Durable Object.

If you wish to learn more about Durable Objects, refer to [What are Durable Objects?](/durable-objects/what-are-durable-objects/).

## Prerequisites

<Render file="prereqs" product="workers" />

## 1. Enable Durable Objects in the dashboard

To enable Durable Objects, you will need to purchase the Workers Paid plan:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), and select your account.
2. Go to **Workers & Pages** > **Plans**.
3. Select **Purchase Workers Paid** and complete the payment process to enable Durable Objects.

## 2. Create a Worker project

Durable Objects are accessed from a [Worker](/workers/).

To create a Worker project, run:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"durable-object-starter"}
/>

Running `create cloudflare@latest` will install [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the Workers CLI. You will use Wrangler to test and deploy your project.

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Hello World Worker using Durable Objects",
		lang: "JavaScript / TypeScript",
	}}
/>

This will create a new directory, which will include either a `src/index.js` or `src/index.ts` file to write your code and a [`wrangler.json`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Move into your new directory:

```sh
cd durable-object-starter
```

## 3. Write a Durable Object class

Durable Objects are defined by a exporting a standard JavaScript class which extends from the `DurableObject` base class.

:::note

If you do not use JavaScript or TypeScript, you will need a [shim](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shim) to translate your class definition to a JavaScript class.
:::

Your `MyDurableObject` class will have a constructor with two parameters. The first parameter, `state`, passed to the class constructor contains state specific to the Durable Object, including methods for accessing storage. The second parameter, `env`, contains any bindings you have associated with the Worker when you uploaded it.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state, env) {}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

Workers can invoke public methods defined on a Durable Object via Remote Procedure Call (RPC).

The `sayHello` method demonstrates this capability:

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state, env) {}

	async sayHello() {
		return "Hello, World!";
	}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {}

	async sayHello(): Promise<string> {
		return "Hello, World!";
	}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 4. Invoke methods on a Durable Object class

As mentioned previously, methods on a Durable Object class are invoked by a Worker. This is done by creating an ID refering to an instance of the Durable Object class, getting a stub that refers to a particular instance of a Durable Object class, and invoking methods on that stub.

The fetch handler should look like the following:

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
// Worker
export default {
	async fetch(request, env) {
		// Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
		const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

		// A stub is a client used to invoke methods on the Durable Object
		const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);

		// Methods on the Durable Object are invoked via the stub
		const rpcResponse = await stub.sayHello();

		return new Response(rpcResponse);
	},
};
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
// Worker
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
		const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

		// A stub is a client used to invoke methods on the Durable Object
		const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);

		// Methods on the Durable Object are invoked via the stub
		const rpcResponse = await stub.sayHello();

		return new Response(rpcResponse);
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 5. Configure Durable Object bindings

To allow a Worker to invoke methods on a Durable Object, the Worker must have a [Durable Object binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) in the project's [`wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects). The binding is configured to use a particular Durable Object class.

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[durable_objects.bindings]]
name = "MY_DURABLE_OBJECT"
class_name = "MyDurableObject"
```

</WranglerConfig>

The `[[durable_objects.bindings]]` section contains the following fields:

- `name` - Required. The binding name to use within your Worker.
- `class_name` - Required. The class name you wish to bind to.
- `script_name` - Optional. The name of the Worker if the Durable Object is external to this Worker.
- `environment` - Optional. The environment of the `script_name` to bind to.

Refer to [Wrangler Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects) for more detail.

## 6. Configure Durable Object classes with migrations

A migration is a mapping process from a class name to a runtime state. You perform a migration when creating a new Durable Object class, or when renaming, deleting or transferring an existing Durable Object class.

Migrations are performed through the `[[migrations]]` configurations key in your Wrangler file.

The Durable Object migration to create a new Durable Object class will look like the following in your Worker's Wrangler file:



<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[migrations]]
tag = "v1" # Should be unique for each entry
new_classes = ["MyDurableObject"] # Array of new classes
```

</WranglerConfig>

### 6.a Optional: Configure new Durable Object class for SQL storage

:::note[SQLite in Durable Objects Beta]

New beta version of Durable Objects is available where each Durable Object has a private, embedded SQLite database. SQL storage is opt-in during beta; otherwise, a Durable Object class has the standard, private key-value storage. Objects can access long-lived durable storage with the [Storage API](/durable-objects/api/storage-api/).

:::

A Durable Object class can only have a single storage type, which cannot be changed after the Durable Object class is created.

To configure SQL storage and API, replace `new_classes` with `new_sqlite_classes` in your Worker's Wrangler file:



<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[migrations]]
tag = "v1" # Should be unique for each entry
new_sqlite_classes = ["MyDurableObject"] # Array of new classes
```

</WranglerConfig>

Refer to [Durable Objects migrations](/durable-objects/reference/durable-objects-migrations/) to learn more about the migration process.

## 7. Develop a Durable Object Worker locally

To test your Durable Object locally, run [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev):

```sh
npx wrangler dev
```

In your console, you should see a`Hello world` string returned by the Durable Object.

## 8. Deploy your Durable Object Worker

To deploy your Durable Object Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Once deployed, you should be able to see your newly created Durable Object Worker on the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), **Workers & Pages** > **Overview**.

Preview your Durable Object Worker at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`.

By finishing this tutorial, you have successfully created, tested and deployed a Durable Object.

### Related resources

- [Send requests to Durable Objects](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs-and-send-requests/)
- [Miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/miniflare) - Helpful tools for mocking and testing your Durable Objects.
