src/content/docs/r2/buckets/create-buckets.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Create new buckets
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

You can create a bucket from the Cloudflare dashboard or using Wrangler.

:::note

Wrangler is [a command-line tool](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) for building with Cloudflare's developer products, including R2.

The R2 support in Wrangler allows you to manage buckets and perform basic operations against objects in your buckets. For more advanced use-cases, including bulk uploads or mirroring files from legacy object storage providers, we recommend [rclone](/r2/examples/rclone/) or an [S3-compatible](/r2/api/s3/) tool of your choice.

:::

## Bucket-Level Operations

Create a bucket with the [`r2 bucket create`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-create) command:

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket create your-bucket-name
```

:::note

Bucket names can only contain lowercase letters (a-z), numbers (0-9), and hyphens (-).

The placeholder text is only for the example.

:::

List buckets in the current account with the [`r2 bucket list`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-list) command:

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket list
```

Delete a bucket with the [`r2 bucket delete`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-delete) command. Note that the bucket must be empty and all objects must be deleted.

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket delete BUCKET_TO_DELETE
```

## Notes

- Bucket names and buckets are not public by default. To allow public access to a bucket, [visit the public bucket documentation](/r2/buckets/public-buckets/).
- Invalid (unauthorized) access attempts to private buckets do not incur R2 operations charges against that bucket. Refer to the [R2 pricing FAQ](/r2/pricing/#frequently-asked-questions) to understand what operations are billed vs. not billed.
- The TLS (SSL) certificate created for each R2 bucket uses a wildcard certificate of the form `*.r2.cloudflarestorage.com`, which prevents account IDs and names from showing up in Certificate Transparency logs.

Commit message:

Update create-buckets.mdx (#19436)
* Update create-buckets.mdx

Bucket names can't start with a number.

* Update src/content/docs/r2/buckets/create-buckets.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/r2/buckets/create-buckets.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Create new buckets
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

You can create a bucket from the Cloudflare dashboard or using Wrangler.

:::note

Wrangler is [a command-line tool](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) for building with Cloudflare's developer products, including R2.

The R2 support in Wrangler allows you to manage buckets and perform basic operations against objects in your buckets. For more advanced use-cases, including bulk uploads or mirroring files from legacy object storage providers, we recommend [rclone](/r2/examples/rclone/) or an [S3-compatible](/r2/api/s3/) tool of your choice.

:::

## Bucket-Level Operations

Create a bucket with the [`r2 bucket create`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-create) command:

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket create your-bucket-name
```

:::note

- Bucket names can only contain lowercase letters (a-z), numbers (0-9), and hyphens (-).
- Bucket names cannot begin or end with a hyphen.

The placeholder text is only for the example.

:::

List buckets in the current account with the [`r2 bucket list`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-list) command:

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket list
```

Delete a bucket with the [`r2 bucket delete`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-delete) command. Note that the bucket must be empty and all objects must be deleted.

```sh
wrangler r2 bucket delete BUCKET_TO_DELETE
```

## Notes

- Bucket names and buckets are not public by default. To allow public access to a bucket, [visit the public bucket documentation](/r2/buckets/public-buckets/).
- Invalid (unauthorized) access attempts to private buckets do not incur R2 operations charges against that bucket. Refer to the [R2 pricing FAQ](/r2/pricing/#frequently-asked-questions) to understand what operations are billed vs. not billed.
- The TLS (SSL) certificate created for each R2 bucket uses a wildcard certificate of the form `*.r2.cloudflarestorage.com`, which prevents account IDs and names from showing up in Certificate Transparency logs.
