src/content/docs/browser-rendering/get-started/reuse-sessions.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Reuse sessions
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Render, PackageManagers } from "~/components";

The best way to improve the performance of your browser rendering worker is to reuse sessions. One way to do that is via [Durable Objects](/browser-rendering/get-started/browser-rendering-with-do/), which allows you to keep a long running connection from a worker to a browser. Another way is to keep the browser open after you've finished with it, and connect to that session each time you have a new request.

In short, this entails using `browser.disconnect()` instead of `browser.close()`, and, if there are available sessions, using `puppeteer.connect(env.MY_BROWSER, sessionID)` instead of launching a new browser session.

## 1. Create a Worker project

[Cloudflare Workers](/workers/) provides a serverless execution environment that allows you to create new applications or augment existing ones without configuring or maintaining infrastructure. Your Worker application is a container to interact with a headless browser to do actions, such as taking screenshots.

Create a new Worker project named `browser-worker` by running:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"browser-worker"}
/>

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Hello World Worker",
		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

## 2. Install Puppeteer

In your `browser-worker` directory, install Cloudflare’s [fork of Puppeteer](/browser-rendering/platform/puppeteer/):

```sh
npm install @cloudflare/puppeteer --save-dev
```

## 3. Configure `wrangler.toml`

```
name = "browser-worker"
main = "src/index.ts"
compatibility_date = "2023-03-14"
compatibility_flags = [ "nodejs_compat" ]

browser = { binding = "MYBROWSER" }
```

## 4. Code

The script below starts by fetching the current running sessions. If there are any that don't already have a worker connection, it picks a random session ID and attempts to connect (`puppeteer.connect(..)`) to it. If that fails or there were no running sessions to start with, it launches a new browser session (`puppeteer.launch(..)`). Then, it goes to the website and fetches the dom. Once that's done, it disconnects (`browser.disconnect()`), making the connection available to other workers.

Take into account that if the browser is idle, i.e. does not get any command, for more than the current [limit](/browser-rendering/platform/limits/), it will close automatically, so you must have enough requests per minute to keep it alive.

```ts
import puppeteer from "@cloudflare/puppeteer";

interface Env {
	MYBROWSER: Fetcher;
}

export default {
	async fetch(request: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		const url = new URL(request.url);
		let reqUrl = url.searchParams.get("url") || "https://example.com";
		reqUrl = new URL(reqUrl).toString(); // normalize

		// Pick random session from open sessions
		let sessionId = await this.getRandomSession(env.MYBROWSER);
		let browser, launched;
		if (sessionId) {
			try {
				browser = await puppeteer.connect(env.MYBROWSER, sessionId);
			} catch (e) {
				// another worker may have connected first
				console.log(`Failed to connect to ${sessionId}. Error ${e}`);
			}
		}
		if (!browser) {
			// No open sessions, launch new session
			browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);
			launched = true;
		}

		sessionId = browser.sessionId(); // get current session id

		// Do your work here
		const page = await browser.newPage();
		const response = await page.goto(reqUrl);
		const html = await response!.text();

		// All work done, so free connection (IMPORTANT!)
		await browser.disconnect();

		return new Response(
			`${launched ? "Launched" : "Connected to"} ${sessionId} \n-----\n` + html,
			{
				headers: {
					"content-type": "text/plain",
				},
			},
		);
	},

	// Pick random free session
	// Other custom logic could be used instead
	async getRandomSession(endpoint: puppeteer.BrowserWorker): Promise<string> {
		const sessions: puppeteer.ActiveSession[] =
			await puppeteer.sessions(endpoint);
		console.log(`Sessions: ${JSON.stringify(sessions)}`);
		const sessionsIds = sessions
			.filter((v) => {
				return !v.connectionId; // remove sessions with workers connected to them
			})
			.map((v) => {
				return v.sessionId;
			});
		if (sessionsIds.length === 0) {
			return;
		}

		const sessionId =
			sessionsIds[Math.floor(Math.random() * sessionsIds.length)];

		return sessionId!;
	},
};
```

Besides `puppeteer.sessions()`, we've added other methods to facilitate [Session Management](/browser-rendering/platform/puppeteer/#session-management).

## 5. Test

Run [`npx wrangler dev --remote`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to test your Worker remotely before deploying to Cloudflare's global network. Local mode support does not exist for Browser Rendering so `--remote` is required.

To test go to the following URL:

`<LOCAL_HOST_URL>/?url=https://example.com`

## 6. Deploy

Run `npx wrangler deploy` to deploy your Worker to the Cloudflare global network and then to go to the following URL:

`<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/?url=https://example.com`

Commit message:

[All] Cleaning up references to wrangler.toml. (#19403)
* Cleaning up references to wrangler.toml.

* Removing erroneous import line.

* Making sure all imports are at the top of the page.

* Catching more instances of wrangler.toml.

* Fixing typo

* Update src/content/docs/workers/platform/pricing.mdx

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/workers/languages/python/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

* Syntax formatting and edit for accuracy.

* Updating language to `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json`

---------

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/browser-rendering/get-started/reuse-sessions.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Reuse sessions
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

The best way to improve the performance of your browser rendering worker is to reuse sessions. One way to do that is via [Durable Objects](/browser-rendering/get-started/browser-rendering-with-do/), which allows you to keep a long running connection from a worker to a browser. Another way is to keep the browser open after you've finished with it, and connect to that session each time you have a new request.

In short, this entails using `browser.disconnect()` instead of `browser.close()`, and, if there are available sessions, using `puppeteer.connect(env.MY_BROWSER, sessionID)` instead of launching a new browser session.

## 1. Create a Worker project

[Cloudflare Workers](/workers/) provides a serverless execution environment that allows you to create new applications or augment existing ones without configuring or maintaining infrastructure. Your Worker application is a container to interact with a headless browser to do actions, such as taking screenshots.

Create a new Worker project named `browser-worker` by running:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"browser-worker"}
/>

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Hello World Worker",
		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

## 2. Install Puppeteer

In your `browser-worker` directory, install Cloudflare's [fork of Puppeteer](/browser-rendering/platform/puppeteer/):

```sh
npm install @cloudflare/puppeteer --save-dev
```

## 3. Configure the `wrangler.toml / wrangler.json` file

<WranglerConfig>
```toml
name = "browser-worker"
main = "src/index.ts"
compatibility_date = "2023-03-14"
compatibility_flags = [ "nodejs_compat" ]

browser = { binding = "MYBROWSER" }
```
</WranglerConfig>

## 4. Code

The script below starts by fetching the current running sessions. If there are any that don't already have a worker connection, it picks a random session ID and attempts to connect (`puppeteer.connect(..)`) to it. If that fails or there were no running sessions to start with, it launches a new browser session (`puppeteer.launch(..)`). Then, it goes to the website and fetches the dom. Once that's done, it disconnects (`browser.disconnect()`), making the connection available to other workers.

Take into account that if the browser is idle, i.e. does not get any command, for more than the current [limit](/browser-rendering/platform/limits/), it will close automatically, so you must have enough requests per minute to keep it alive.

```ts
import puppeteer from "@cloudflare/puppeteer";

interface Env {
	MYBROWSER: Fetcher;
}

export default {
	async fetch(request: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		const url = new URL(request.url);
		let reqUrl = url.searchParams.get("url") || "https://example.com";
		reqUrl = new URL(reqUrl).toString(); // normalize

		// Pick random session from open sessions
		let sessionId = await this.getRandomSession(env.MYBROWSER);
		let browser, launched;
		if (sessionId) {
			try {
				browser = await puppeteer.connect(env.MYBROWSER, sessionId);
			} catch (e) {
				// another worker may have connected first
				console.log(`Failed to connect to ${sessionId}. Error ${e}`);
			}
		}
		if (!browser) {
			// No open sessions, launch new session
			browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);
			launched = true;
		}

		sessionId = browser.sessionId(); // get current session id

		// Do your work here
		const page = await browser.newPage();
		const response = await page.goto(reqUrl);
		const html = await response!.text();

		// All work done, so free connection (IMPORTANT!)
		await browser.disconnect();

		return new Response(
			`${launched ? "Launched" : "Connected to"} ${sessionId} \n-----\n` + html,
			{
				headers: {
					"content-type": "text/plain",
				},
			},
		);
	},

	// Pick random free session
	// Other custom logic could be used instead
	async getRandomSession(endpoint: puppeteer.BrowserWorker): Promise<string> {
		const sessions: puppeteer.ActiveSession[] =
			await puppeteer.sessions(endpoint);
		console.log(`Sessions: ${JSON.stringify(sessions)}`);
		const sessionsIds = sessions
			.filter((v) => {
				return !v.connectionId; // remove sessions with workers connected to them
			})
			.map((v) => {
				return v.sessionId;
			});
		if (sessionsIds.length === 0) {
			return;
		}

		const sessionId =
			sessionsIds[Math.floor(Math.random() * sessionsIds.length)];

		return sessionId!;
	},
};
```

Besides `puppeteer.sessions()`, we've added other methods to facilitate [Session Management](/browser-rendering/platform/puppeteer/#session-management).

## 5. Test

Run [`npx wrangler dev --remote`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) to test your Worker remotely before deploying to Cloudflare's global network. Local mode support does not exist for Browser Rendering so `--remote` is required.

To test go to the following URL:

`<LOCAL_HOST_URL>/?url=https://example.com`

## 6. Deploy

Run `npx wrangler deploy` to deploy your Worker to the Cloudflare global network and then to go to the following URL:

`<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/?url=https://example.com`
