src/content/docs/turnstile/troubleshooting/challenge-solve-issues.mdx, before:

---
title: Challenge solve issues
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
sidebar:
  order: 5

---

import { Render } from "~/components"

## Challenge loops

You may encounter a challenge loop where the challenge keeps reappearing without being solved. This can happen for several reasons:

- **Network issues**: Poor or unstable network connections can prevent the challenge from being completed.
- **Browser configuration**: Some browser settings or extensions may block the scripts needed to execute the challenge.
- **Unsupported browsers**: Using a browser that is not supported by Turnstile.
- **JavaScript disabled**: Turnstile relies on JavaScript to function properly.
- **Detection errors**: If Turnstile suspects bot-like behavior, you may encounter repeated challenges for verification.

Most challenges are quick and should take only a few seconds to complete. If it takes longer, ensure your network is stable and follow the [troubleshooting steps](#troubleshooting).

:::note
If the issue persists, try switching to a different network or device to rule out any issues with your browser environment.

Make sure that your browser is updated to the latest version.
:::

## Troubleshooting

Follow the steps below to ensure that your environment is properly configured.

<Render file="troubleshooting-steps" />

If none of the above resolves your issue, contact the website administrator with the [error code](/turnstile/troubleshooting/client-side-errors/error-codes/) and Ray ID or submit a [feedback report](/turnstile/troubleshooting/feedback-reports/) through the Turnstile widget by selecting **Submit Feedback**.

Commit message:

[Turnstile] Update challenge solve issue troubleshooting (#19499)
* update partial

* typo

* intro wording

src/content/docs/turnstile/troubleshooting/challenge-solve-issues.mdx, after:

---
title: Challenge solve issues
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
sidebar:
  order: 5

---

import { Render } from "~/components"

## Challenge loops

You may encounter a challenge loop where the challenge keeps reappearing without being solved. This is in very specific cases where we detect strong bot signals. If you are a legitimate human, you can follow the troubleshooting guide below to resolve the issue or submit a feedback report. Challenge loops can happen for several reasons:

- **Network issues**: Poor or unstable network connections can prevent the challenge from being completed.
- **Browser configuration**: Some browser settings or extensions may block the scripts needed to execute the challenge.
- **Unsupported browsers**: Using a browser that is not supported by Turnstile.
- **JavaScript disabled**: Turnstile relies on JavaScript to function properly.
- **Detection errors**: If Turnstile suspects bot-like behavior, you may encounter repeated challenges for verification.

Most challenges are quick and should take only a few seconds to complete. If it takes longer, ensure your network is stable and follow the [troubleshooting steps](#troubleshooting).

:::note
If the issue persists, try switching to a different network or device to rule out any issues with your browser environment.

Make sure that your browser is updated to the latest version.
:::

## Troubleshooting

Follow the steps below to ensure that your environment is properly configured.

<Render file="troubleshooting-steps" />

If none of the above resolves your issue, contact the website administrator with the [error code](/turnstile/troubleshooting/client-side-errors/error-codes/) and Ray ID or submit a [feedback report](/turnstile/troubleshooting/feedback-reports/) through the Turnstile widget by selecting **Submit Feedback**.
