src/content/docs/style-guide/components/inline-badge.mdx, before:

---
title: Inline badge
---

:::caution[Recommendation: Avoid inline badges]

Our current recommendation is to avoid inline badges, since they may hurt readability.

Guidelines:
- Mention beta/alpha/early access in the feature's main documentation page (use the [`<Badge>`](/style-guide/components/badges/) component for this purpose).
- If an additional reference is needed in the middle of the text, use "(beta)", with no special formatting, after the feature name.
- For instructions related to the feature (such as instructions on turning the feature on or off), you may mention again it's in beta, and also include "(beta)" in the side nav.
:::

## Example

```mdx live
import { InlineBadge } from '~/components';

### Alpha <InlineBadge preset="alpha" />

### Beta <InlineBadge preset="beta" />

### Deprecated <InlineBadge preset="deprecated" />

### Early Access <InlineBadge preset="early-access" />

### Legacy <InlineBadge preset="legacy" />

### Custom <InlineBadge text="Custom" variant="success" />
```

## Inputs

Either `preset` or `text` and `variant` must be specified.

### Presets

- `alpha`
    - **Text**: `Alpha`
    - **Variant** `success`

- `beta`
    - **Text**: `Beta`
    - **Variant** `caution`

- `deprecated`
    - **Text**: `Deprecated`
    - **Variant** `danger`

- `early-access`
    - **Text**: `Early Access`
    - **Variant** `note`

- `legacy`
    - **Text**: `Legacy`
    - **Variant** `danger`

### Text

Any string.

### Variant

- `note`
    - **Color**: Blue

- `tip`
    - **Color**: Purple

- `danger`
    - **Color**: Red

- `caution`
    - **Color**: Orange

- `success`
    - **Color**: Green

Commit message:

[Docs Site] Adopt Cloudflare styling for badge component (#19390)
* [Docs Site] Adopt Cloudflare styling for badge component

* add variant styling

* remove variant note

* remove gray class in inline badge docs

* add caution variant to workers ai beta badge

src/content/docs/style-guide/components/inline-badge.mdx, after:

---
title: Inline badge
---

:::caution[Recommendation: Avoid inline badges]

Our current recommendation is to avoid inline badges, since they may hurt readability.

Guidelines:
- Mention beta/alpha/early access in the feature's main documentation page (use the [`<Badge>`](/style-guide/components/badges/) component for this purpose).
- If an additional reference is needed in the middle of the text, use "(beta)", with no special formatting, after the feature name.
- For instructions related to the feature (such as instructions on turning the feature on or off), you may mention again it's in beta, and also include "(beta)" in the side nav.
:::

## Component

To adopt this styling in a React component, apply the `sl-badge` class to a `span` element.

```mdx live
import { InlineBadge } from '~/components';

### Alpha <InlineBadge preset="alpha" />

### Beta <InlineBadge preset="beta" />

### Deprecated <InlineBadge preset="deprecated" />

### Early Access <InlineBadge preset="early-access" />

### Legacy <InlineBadge preset="legacy" />

### Default <InlineBadge text="Default" />
```

## Inputs

Either `preset` or `text` and `variant` must be specified.

### Presets

- `alpha`
    - **Text**: `Alpha`
    - **Variant** `success`

- `beta`
    - **Text**: `Beta`
    - **Variant** `caution`

- `deprecated`
    - **Text**: `Deprecated`
    - **Variant** `danger`

- `early-access`
    - **Text**: `Early Access`
    - **Variant** `note`

- `legacy`
    - **Text**: `Legacy`
    - **Variant** `danger`

### Text

Any string.

### Variant

- `note`
    - **Color**: Blue

- `tip`
    - **Color**: Purple

- `danger`
    - **Color**: Red

- `caution`
    - **Color**: Orange

- `success`
    - **Color**: Green
