src/content/docs/byoip/get-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Get started
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 2

---

import { GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components"

To bring your own IPs, you must work with your account team to understand everything you need to ensure a smooth transition during the onboarding process.

:::note

BYOIP is ingress only. 
:::

## Overview

Cloudflare requires a service-specific configuration for your prefixes, as well as some requirements common to all BYOIP customers regardless of service type. These requirements are common to all products compatible with BYOIP, such as [Magic Transit](/magic-transit/), [Spectrum](/spectrum/), and [CDN services](/cache/).

## Prerequisites

There are two major prerequisites before Cloudflare can begin onboarding your IP space.

1. You must verify your [Internet Routing Registry (IRR)](/byoip/concepts/irr-entries/) records are up to date with the correct prefix or ASN information.
2. Cloudflare must receive a [Letter of Agency (LOA)](/byoip/concepts/loa/) to announce your prefixes, which we will share with our transit partners as evidence that we are allowed to announce the route.

Optionally, if you use the <GlossaryTooltip term="Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)">Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)</GlossaryTooltip> protocol to sign your routes, Cloudflare can help with this as well. Contact your account team if you are interested in using RPKI.

After onboarding, [Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/glossary/what-is-bgp/) announcements for customer prefixes can be controlled with the [Dynamic Advertisement](/byoip/concepts/dynamic-advertisement/) API or via the Cloudflare dashboard.

## Cloudflare IPs

If you are unable to bring your own IP to Cloudflare, you can use an IP address issued by Cloudflare.

Using a Cloudflare IP may be a good option if you:

* Have one or a few IPs allocated from home or business class ISPs.
* Are an online streamer who could be the target of a DoS attack if your IP is leaked.
* Are a business owner with a small number of locations with broadband Internet connections.
* Do not own an IP space with a /24 prefix length.
* Maintain a large number of locations with a combination of connectivity methods.
* Own an IP space with a /24 prefix length but do not advertise prefixes from every location.

To protect your network using a Cloudflare IP address, contact your account manager.

:::note

When you use a Cloudflare-managed IP space, you do not need to provide a Letter of Agency (LOA) and advertise your prefixes that are associated with bringing your own IP. 
:::

Commit message:

[BYOIP] Review get-started and IRR guidance (#18941)
* Specify requirements for IRR route, route6, and origin

* Remove note on less specific prefixes being acceptable

* Add callout for when using RPKI and link to CF portal

* Nit: remove duplicated Overview h2

* Add glossary definition and tooltip for ROA

* Adjust ROA definition

* Remove dupe sentence and old button from Overview

* Add second source for RPKI validation

src/content/docs/byoip/get-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Get started
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 2

---

import { GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components"

To bring your own IPs, you must work with your account team to understand everything you need to ensure a smooth transition during the onboarding process.

:::note
BYOIP is ingress only.
:::

Cloudflare requires a service-specific configuration for your prefixes, as well as some requirements common to all BYOIP customers regardless of service type. These requirements are common to all products compatible with BYOIP, such as [Magic Transit](/magic-transit/), [Spectrum](/spectrum/), and [CDN services](/cache/).

## Prerequisites

There are two major prerequisites before Cloudflare can begin onboarding your IP space.

1. Cloudflare must receive a [Letter of Agency (LOA)](/byoip/concepts/loa/) to announce your prefixes, which we will share with our transit partners as evidence that we are allowed to announce the route.
2. You must verify that your [Internet Routing Registry (IRR)](/byoip/concepts/irr-entries/) records are up to date and contain:
    - `route` or `route6` objects matching the exact prefixes you want to onboard
    - `origin` matching the correct ASN you want to onboard

:::caution[RPKI validation]
You are not required to use <GlossaryTooltip term="Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)">Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)</GlossaryTooltip>. However, if you do, make sure your <GlossaryTooltip term="Route Origin Authorization (ROA)">ROAs</GlossaryTooltip> are accurate. You can use [Cloudflare's RPKI Portal](https://rpki.cloudflare.com/?view=validator) and a second source such as [Routinator](https://rpki-validator.ripe.net/ui/) to double check your prefixes.
:::

After onboarding, [Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/glossary/what-is-bgp/) announcements for customer prefixes can be controlled with the [Dynamic Advertisement](/byoip/concepts/dynamic-advertisement/) API or via the Cloudflare dashboard.

## Cloudflare IPs

If you are unable to bring your own IP to Cloudflare, you can use an IP address issued by Cloudflare.

Using a Cloudflare IP may be a good option if you:

* Have one or a few IPs allocated from home or business class ISPs.
* Are an online streamer who could be the target of a DoS attack if your IP is leaked.
* Are a business owner with a small number of locations with broadband Internet connections.
* Do not own an IP space with a /24 prefix length.
* Maintain a large number of locations with a combination of connectivity methods.
* Own an IP space with a /24 prefix length but do not advertise prefixes from every location.

To protect your network using a Cloudflare IP address, contact your account manager.

:::note

When you use a Cloudflare-managed IP space, you do not need to provide a Letter of Agency (LOA) and advertise your prefixes that are associated with bringing your own IP.
:::
