src/content/docs/api-shield/security/mtls/configure.mdx, before:

---
title: Configure mTLS
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Configure mTLS

---

import { Render } from "~/components"

When you specify API hosts in [mTLS authentication](/api-shield/security/mtls/), Cloudflare will block all requests that do not have a [client certificate](/ssl/client-certificates/) for mTLS authentication.

## Prerequisites

Before you can protect your API or web application with mTLS rules, you need to:

- Check that the certificate installed on your origin server matches the hostname of the client certificate, for example `api.example.com`. Origin server wildcard certificates such as `*.example.com` are not supported.
- [Create a client certificate](/ssl/client-certificates/create-a-client-certificate/).
- [Configure your mobile app or IoT device](/ssl/client-certificates/configure-your-mobile-app-or-iot-device/) to use your Cloudflare-issued client certificate.
- [Enable mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) for a host](/ssl/client-certificates/enable-mtls/) in your zone.

<Render file="mtls-api-shield-support" />

<Render file="cloudflare-managed-client-cert" product="ssl" />

## Create an mTLS rule

<Render file="mtls-create-rule" product="api-shield" />

### Expression Builder

To review your mTLS rule in the Expression Builder, select the **wrench icon** associated with your rule.

In the **Expression Preview**, your mTLS rule includes a [compound expression](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/expressions/#compound-expressions) formed from two [simple expressions](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/expressions/#simple-expressions) joined by the `and` operator.

The first expression — `not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified` — returns `true` when a request to access your API or web application does not present a valid client certificate.

The second expression uses the `http.request.uri.path` field, combined with the `in` operator, to capture the URI paths your mTLS rule applies to.

Because the [action](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/actions/) for your rule is *Block*, only requests that present a valid client certificate can access the specified hosts.

### Check for revoked certificates

To check for [revoked client certificates](/ssl/client-certificates/revoke-client-certificate/), you can either add a new mTLS rule or add a new expression to the [default rule](#expression-builder). To check for revoked certificates, you must use the Expression Builder.

When a request includes a revoked certificate, the `cf.tls_client_auth.cert_revoked` field is set to `true`. If you combined this with the [default mTLS rule](#expression-builder), it would look similar to the following:

```sql
((not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified or cf.tls_client_auth.cert_revoked) and http.request.uri.path in {"/admin"})
```

:::caution

This check only applies to client certificates issued by the Cloudflare managed CA. Cloudflare currently does not check certificate revocation lists (CRL) for [CAs that have been uploaded](/ssl/client-certificates/byo-ca/). 
:::

Commit message:

[API Shield] Add details on securing mTLS rules (#19561)
---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/api-shield/security/mtls/configure.mdx, after:

---
title: Configure mTLS
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Configure mTLS
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

When you specify API hosts in [mTLS authentication](/api-shield/security/mtls/), Cloudflare will block all requests that do not have a [client certificate](/ssl/client-certificates/) for mTLS authentication.

## Prerequisites

Before you can protect your API or web application with mTLS rules, you need to:

- Check that the certificate installed on your origin server matches the hostname of the client certificate, for example `api.example.com`. Origin server wildcard certificates such as `*.example.com` are not supported.
- [Create a client certificate](/ssl/client-certificates/create-a-client-certificate/).
- [Configure your mobile app or IoT device](/ssl/client-certificates/configure-your-mobile-app-or-iot-device/) to use your Cloudflare-issued client certificate.
- [Enable mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) for a host](/ssl/client-certificates/enable-mtls/) in your zone.

<Render file="mtls-api-shield-support" />

<Render file="cloudflare-managed-client-cert" product="ssl" />

## Create an mTLS rule

<Render file="mtls-create-rule" product="api-shield" />

### Expression Builder

To review your mTLS rule in the Expression Builder, select the **wrench icon** associated with your rule.

In the **Expression Preview**, your mTLS rule includes a [compound expression](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/expressions/#compound-expressions) formed from two [simple expressions](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/expressions/#simple-expressions) joined by the `and` operator.

The first expression — `not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified` — returns `true` when a request to access your API or web application does not present a valid client certificate.

The second expression uses the `http.request.uri.path` field, combined with the `in` operator, to capture the URI paths your mTLS rule applies to.

Because the [action](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/actions/) for your rule is _Block_, only requests that present a valid client certificate can access the specified hosts.

For enhanced security, Cloudflare recommends that you validate the SHA-256 certificate hash alongside the verified certificate field. This ensures that only requests presenting a valid client certificate with a specific fingerprint are allowed.

You can implement this by using an expression similar to the following:

```txt
not (cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified and cf.tls_client_auth.cert_fingerprint_sha256 eq "253E08C1AB67EB7630C61734D377D75D5DCCDE2F6E69986C221D66E848B64321")
```

To obtain the SHA-256 fingerprint of a client certificate stored in the `mtls.crt` file, you can run the following OpenSSL command:

```sh
openssl x509 -noout -fingerprint -sha256 -inform pem -in mtls.crt | cut -d "=" -f 2 | tr -d ':'
```

```txt output
253E08C1AB67EB7630C61734D377D75D5DCCDE2F6E69986C221D66E848B64321
```

### Check for revoked certificates

To check for [revoked client certificates](/ssl/client-certificates/revoke-client-certificate/), you can either add a new mTLS rule or add a new expression to the [default rule](#expression-builder). To check for revoked certificates, you must use the Expression Builder.

When a request includes a revoked certificate, the `cf.tls_client_auth.cert_revoked` field is set to `true`. If you combined this with the [default mTLS rule](#expression-builder), it would look similar to the following:

```sql
((not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified or cf.tls_client_auth.cert_revoked) and http.request.uri.path in {"/admin"})
```

:::caution

This check only applies to client certificates issued by the Cloudflare managed CA. Cloudflare currently does not check certificate revocation lists (CRL) for [CAs that have been uploaded](/ssl/client-certificates/byo-ca/).
:::
