src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Download WARP
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: Stable releases
---

import { Render, Details, WARPReleases } from "~/components";

Download the WARP client from one of the following links after checking requirements.

## Windows

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/windows" />

<WARPReleases track="windows/ga" />

## macOS

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/macos" />

<WARPReleases track="macos/ga" />

## Linux

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/linux" />

<WARPReleases track="linux/ga" />

## iOS

|                |         |
| -------------- | ------- |
| **OS version** | iOS 11+ |

[Download from the iOS App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cloudflare-one-agent/id6443476492) or search for "Cloudflare One Agent".

:::note[Migrate from 1.1.1.1]

The legacy iOS client, [1.1.1.1: Faster Internet](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/1-1-1-1-faster-internet/id1423538627), has been replaced by the Cloudflare One Agent. Learn more in our [migration guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/cloudflare-one-agent-migration/).

:::

## Android

|                |      |
| -------------- | ---- |
| **OS version** | 5.0+ |

[Download from the Google Play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent) or search for "Cloudflare One Agent".

:::note[Migrate from 1.1.1.1]

The legacy Android client, [1.1.1.1 + WARP: Safer Internet](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cloudflare.onedotonedotonedotone), has been replaced by the Cloudflare One Agent. Learn more in our [migration guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/cloudflare-one-agent-migration/).

:::

## ChromeOS

|                |                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **OS version** | Chromebooks manufactured after 2019 |

Chromebooks are supported by our [Android app](#android). All Chromebooks made after 2019 should fully support our Android app. If you have a Chromebook made before 2019, [refer to this list](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/chrome-os-systems-supporting-android-apps/) to verify that your device is supported.

Commit message:

[ZT] Link between beta and stable release pages (#19472)
* PCX-15425

* note on beta page

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Download WARP
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: Stable releases
---

import { Render, Details, WARPReleases } from "~/components";

This page contains the stable WARP client releases currently supported by Cloudflare. We recommend using stable releases for production environments. You can download stable releases from the links below after checking requirements.

Cloudflare also offers an unstable beta release track with the latest features and improvements. To preview new features before they are available in a stable release, refer to the [beta release page](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/beta-releases/).

## Windows

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/windows" />

<WARPReleases track="windows/ga" />

## macOS

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/macos" />

<WARPReleases track="macos/ga" />

## Linux

<Render file="warp/system-requirements/linux" />

<WARPReleases track="linux/ga" />

## iOS

|                |         |
| -------------- | ------- |
| **OS version** | iOS 11+ |

[Download from the iOS App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cloudflare-one-agent/id6443476492) or search for "Cloudflare One Agent".

:::note[Migrate from 1.1.1.1]

The legacy iOS client, [1.1.1.1: Faster Internet](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/1-1-1-1-faster-internet/id1423538627), has been replaced by the Cloudflare One Agent. Learn more in our [migration guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/cloudflare-one-agent-migration/).

:::

## Android

|                |      |
| -------------- | ---- |
| **OS version** | 5.0+ |

[Download from the Google Play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent) or search for "Cloudflare One Agent".

:::note[Migrate from 1.1.1.1]

The legacy Android client, [1.1.1.1 + WARP: Safer Internet](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cloudflare.onedotonedotonedotone), has been replaced by the Cloudflare One Agent. Learn more in our [migration guide](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/cloudflare-one-agent-migration/).

:::

## ChromeOS

|                |                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **OS version** | Chromebooks manufactured after 2019 |

Chromebooks are supported by our [Android app](#android). All Chromebooks made after 2019 should fully support our Android app. If you have a Chromebook made before 2019, [refer to this list](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/chrome-os-systems-supporting-android-apps/) to verify that your device is supported.
