src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a remotely-managed tunnel (dashboard)
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Follow this step-by-step guide to get your first tunnel up and running using Zero Trust.

## 1. Create a tunnel

<Render file="tunnel/create-tunnel" product="cloudflare-one" />

The next steps depend on whether you want to [connect an application](#2a-connect-an-application) or [connect a network](#2b-connect-a-network).

## 2a. Connect an application

Before you connect an application through your tunnel, you must:

- [Add a website to Cloudflare](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/add-site/).
- [Change your domain nameservers to Cloudflare](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup/).

Follow these steps to connect an application through your tunnel. If you are looking to connect a network, skip to the [Connect a network section](#2b-connect-a-network).

<Render file="tunnel/add-public-hostname" product="cloudflare-one" />

The application is now publicly available on the Internet. To allow or block specific users, [create an Access application](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/self-hosted-public-app/).

## 2b. Connect a network

Follow these steps to connect a private network through your tunnel.

1. In the **Private Networks** tab, add an IP or CIDR.

2. Select **Save tunnel**.

To configure Zero Trust policies and connect as a user, refer to [Connect private networks](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/cloudflared/).

## 3. View your tunnel

After saving the tunnel, you will be redirected to the **Tunnels** page. Look for your new tunnel to be listed along with its active connector.

![Tunnel appearing in the Tunnels table](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-apps/tunnel-table.png)

Commit message:

[CF1] public hostname error (#19424)
* [CF1] public hostname error

* Apply suggestions from code review

pcx edits

Co-authored-by: Patricia Santa Ana <103445940+patriciasantaana@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: ranbel <101146722+ranbel@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Patricia Santa Ana <103445940+patriciasantaana@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: ranbel <101146722+ranbel@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/get-started/create-remote-tunnel.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a remotely-managed tunnel (dashboard)
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Follow this step-by-step guide to get your first tunnel up and running using Zero Trust.

## 1. Create a tunnel

<Render file="tunnel/create-tunnel" product="cloudflare-one" />

The next steps depend on whether you want to [connect an application](#2a-connect-an-application) or [connect a network](#2b-connect-a-network).

## 2a. Connect an application

Before you connect an application through your tunnel, you must:

- [Add a website to Cloudflare](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/add-site/).
- [Change your domain nameservers to Cloudflare](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup/).

Follow these steps to connect an application through your tunnel. If you are looking to connect a network, skip to the [Connect a network section](#2b-connect-a-network).

<Render file="tunnel/add-public-hostname" product="cloudflare-one" />

If you add a multi-level subdomain (more than one level of subdomain), you must [order an Advanced Certificate for the hostname](/cloudflare-one/faq/troubleshooting/#i-see-this-site-cant-provide-a-secure-connection).

The application is now publicly available on the Internet. To allow or block specific users, [create an Access application](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/self-hosted-public-app/).

## 2b. Connect a network

Follow these steps to connect a private network through your tunnel.

1. In the **Private Networks** tab, add an IP or CIDR.

2. Select **Save tunnel**.

To configure Zero Trust policies and connect as a user, refer to [Connect private networks](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/cloudflared/).

## 3. View your tunnel

After saving the tunnel, you will be redirected to the **Tunnels** page. Look for your new tunnel to be listed along with its active connector.

![Tunnel appearing in the Tunnels table](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-apps/tunnel-table.png)
