src/content/docs/durable-objects/reference/data-location.mdx, before:

---
title: Data location
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 8
---

## Restrict Durable Objects to a jurisdiction

Jurisdictions are used to create Durable Objects that only run and store data within a region to comply with local regulations such as the [GDPR](https://gdpr-info.eu/) or [FedRAMP](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-achieves-fedramp-authorization/).

Workers may still access Durable Objects constrained to a jurisdiction from anywhere in the world. The jurisdiction constraint only controls where the Durable Object itself runs and persists data. Consider using [Regional Services](/data-localization/regional-services/) to control the regions from which Cloudflare responds to requests.

:::note[Logging]

A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) will be logged outside of the specified jurisdiction for billing and debugging purposes.

:::

Durable Objects can be restricted to a specific jurisdiction either by creating a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) restricted to a jurisdiction, or by creating an individual [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) restricted to a jurisdiction:

```js
const euSubnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu");
const euId = euSubnamespace.newUniqueId();
// or
const euId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId({ jurisdiction: "eu" });
```

Methods on a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) that take a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) as a parameter will throw an exception if the parameter is associated with a different jurisdiction. To achieve this, a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) encodes its jurisdiction. As a consequence, it is possible to have the same name represent different IDs in different jurisdictions.

```js
const euId1 = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("my-name");
const euId2 = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu").idFromName("my-name");
console.assert(!euId1.equal(euId2), "This should always be true");
```

Methods on a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) that take a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) as a parameter will throw an exception if the parameter is associated with a different jurisdiction. However, these methods will not throw an exception if the [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) is not associated with a jurisdiction. The common case is that any valid [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) can be used in the top-level namespace's methods.

```js
const euSubnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu");
const euId = euSubnamespace.idFromName(name);
const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(euId);
```

### Supported locations

| Parameter | Location                     |
| --------- | ---------------------------- |
| eu        | The European Union           |
| fedramp   | FedRAMP-compliant data centers |

## Provide a location hint

Durable Objects, as with any stateful API, will often add response latency as requests must be forwarded to the data center where the Durable Object, or state, is located.

Durable Objects do not currently change locations after they are created<sup>1</sup>. By default, a Durable Object is instantiated in a data center close to where the initial `get()` request is made. This may not be in the same data center that the `get()` request is made from, but in most cases, it will be in close proximity.

:::caution[Initial requests to Durable Objects]

It can negatively impact latency to pre-create Durable Objects prior to the first client request or when the first client request is not representative of where the majority of requests will come from. It is better for latency to create Durable Objects in response to actual production traffic or provide explicit location hints.

:::

Location hints are the mechanism provided to specify the location that a Durable Object should be located regardless of where the initial `get()` request comes from.

To manually create Durable Objects in another location, provide an optional `locationHint` parameter to `get()`. Only the first call to `get()` for a particular Object will respect the hint.

```js
let durableObjectStub = OBJECT_NAMESPACE.get(id, { locationHint: "enam" });
```

:::caution

Hints are a best effort and not a guarantee. Unlike with jurisdictions, Durable Objects will not necessarily be instantiated in the hinted location, but instead instantiated in a data center selected to minimize latency from the hinted location.
:::

### Supported locations

| Parameter | Location              |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| wnam      | Western North America |
| enam      | Eastern North America |
| sam       | South America         |
| weur      | Western Europe        |
| eeur      | Eastern Europe        |
| apac      | Asia-Pacific          |
| oc        | Oceania               |
| afr       | Africa                |
| me        | Middle East           |

<sup>1</sup> Dynamic relocation of existing Durable Objects is planned for the
future.

Commit message:

Adding glossary terms for DO where relevant.

src/content/docs/durable-objects/reference/data-location.mdx, after:

---
title: Data location
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 8
---

import { GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components";

## Restrict Durable Objects to a jurisdiction

Jurisdictions are used to create <GlossaryTooltip term="Durable Object">Durable Objects</GlossaryTooltip> that only run and store data within a region to comply with local regulations such as the [GDPR](https://gdpr-info.eu/) or [FedRAMP](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-achieves-fedramp-authorization/).

Workers may still access Durable Objects constrained to a jurisdiction from anywhere in the world. The jurisdiction constraint only controls where the Durable Object itself runs and persists data. Consider using [Regional Services](/data-localization/regional-services/) to control the regions from which Cloudflare responds to requests.

:::note[Logging]

A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) will be logged outside of the specified jurisdiction for billing and debugging purposes.

:::

Durable Objects can be restricted to a specific jurisdiction either by creating a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) restricted to a jurisdiction, or by creating an individual [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) restricted to a jurisdiction:

```js
const euSubnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu");
const euId = euSubnamespace.newUniqueId();
// or
const euId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId({ jurisdiction: "eu" });
```

Methods on a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) that take a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) as a parameter will throw an exception if the parameter is associated with a different jurisdiction. To achieve this, a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) encodes its jurisdiction. As a consequence, it is possible to have the same name represent different IDs in different jurisdictions.

```js
const euId1 = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("my-name");
const euId2 = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu").idFromName("my-name");
console.assert(!euId1.equal(euId2), "This should always be true");
```

Methods on a [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) that take a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) as a parameter will throw an exception if the parameter is associated with a different jurisdiction. However, these methods will not throw an exception if the [`DurableObjectNamespace`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/) is not associated with a jurisdiction. The common case is that any valid [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) can be used in the top-level namespace's methods.

```js
const euSubnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("eu");
const euId = euSubnamespace.idFromName(name);
const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(euId);
```

### Supported locations

| Parameter | Location                     |
| --------- | ---------------------------- |
| eu        | The European Union           |
| fedramp   | FedRAMP-compliant data centers |

## Provide a location hint

Durable Objects, as with any stateful API, will often add response latency as requests must be forwarded to the data center where the Durable Object, or state, is located.

Durable Objects do not currently change locations after they are created<sup>1</sup>. By default, a Durable Object is instantiated in a data center close to where the initial `get()` request is made. This may not be in the same data center that the `get()` request is made from, but in most cases, it will be in close proximity.

:::caution[Initial requests to Durable Objects]

It can negatively impact latency to pre-create Durable Objects prior to the first client request or when the first client request is not representative of where the majority of requests will come from. It is better for latency to create Durable Objects in response to actual production traffic or provide explicit location hints.

:::

Location hints are the mechanism provided to specify the location that a Durable Object should be located regardless of where the initial `get()` request comes from.

To manually create Durable Objects in another location, provide an optional `locationHint` parameter to `get()`. Only the first call to `get()` for a particular Object will respect the hint.

```js
let durableObjectStub = OBJECT_NAMESPACE.get(id, { locationHint: "enam" });
```

:::caution

Hints are a best effort and not a guarantee. Unlike with jurisdictions, Durable Objects will not necessarily be instantiated in the hinted location, but instead instantiated in a data center selected to minimize latency from the hinted location.
:::

### Supported locations

| Parameter | Location              |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| wnam      | Western North America |
| enam      | Eastern North America |
| sam       | South America         |
| weur      | Western Europe        |
| eeur      | Eastern Europe        |
| apac      | Asia-Pacific          |
| oc        | Oceania               |
| afr       | Africa                |
| me        | Middle East           |

<sup>1</sup> Dynamic relocation of existing Durable Objects is planned for the
future.
