src/content/docs/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: System environment variables
head: []
description: Local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior.

---

import { Render, Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components"

System environment variables are local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior. There are three ways to set system environment variables:

1. Create an `.env` file in your project directory. Set the values of your environment variables in your [`.env`](/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#example-env-file) file. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.

2. Inline the values in your Wrangler command. For example, `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" npx wrangler deploy` will set the value of `WRANGLER_LOG` to `"debug"` for this execution of the command.

3. Set the values in your shell environment. For example, if you are using Z shell, adding `export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.

## Supported environment variables

Wrangler supports the following environment variables:



* `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [account ID](/fundamentals/setup/find-account-and-zone-ids/) for the Workers related account.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) for your Cloudflare account, can be used for authentication for situations like CI/CD, and other automation.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The API key for your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=`.

* `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The email address associated with your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=`.

* `WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * Options for this are `true` and `false`. Defaults to `true`. Controls whether Wrangler can send anonymous usage data to Cloudflare for this project. You can learn more about this in our [data policy](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/wrangler/telemetry.md).

* `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>`<Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [local connection string](/hyperdrive/configuration/local-development/) for your database to use in local development with [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/). For example, if the binding for your Hyperdrive is named `PROD_DB`, this would be `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_PROD_DB="postgres://user:password@127.0.0.1:5432/testdb"`. Each Hyperdrive is uniquely distinguished by the binding name.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The default value is `"https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4"`.

* `WRANGLER_LOG` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * Options for Logging levels are `"none"`, `"error"`, `"warn"`, `"info"`, `"log"` and `"debug"`. Levels are case-insensitive and default to `"log"`. If an invalid level is specified, Wrangler will fallback to the default. Logs can include requests to Cloudflare's API, any usage data being collected, and more verbose error logs.

* `FORCE_COLOR` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * By setting this to `0`, you can disable Wrangler's colorised output, which makes it easier to read with some terminal setups. For example, `FORCE_COLOR=0`.





## Example `.env` file

The following is an example `.env` file:

```bash
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID_VALUE>
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=<YOUR_API_TOKEN_VALUE>
CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=<YOUR_EMAIL>
WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS=true
CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4
WRANGLER_LOG=debug
```

## Deprecated global variables

The following variables are deprecated. Use the new variables listed above to prevent any issues or unwanted messaging.

* `CF_ACCOUNT_ID`
* `CF_API_TOKEN`
* `CF_API_KEY`
* `CF_EMAIL`
* `CF_API_BASE_URL`

Commit message:

Clarify how `wrangler --env` affects loading `.env` and `.dev.vars` (#19340)
Co-authored-by: Pete Bacon Darwin <pete@bacondarwin.com>

src/content/docs/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: System environment variables
head: []
description: Local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior.

---

import { Render, Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components"

System environment variables are local environment variables that can change Wrangler's behavior. There are three ways to set system environment variables:

1. Create an `.env` file in your project directory. Set the values of your environment variables in your [`.env`](/workers/wrangler/system-environment-variables/#example-env-file) file. This is the recommended way to set these variables, as it persists the values between Wrangler sessions.

2. Inline the values in your Wrangler command. For example, `WRANGLER_LOG="debug" npx wrangler deploy` will set the value of `WRANGLER_LOG` to `"debug"` for this execution of the command.

3. Set the values in your shell environment. For example, if you are using Z shell, adding `export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=...` to your `~/.zshrc` file will set this token as part of your shell configuration.

:::note

You can set system environment variables per environment by creating additional files with the naming convention `.env.<environment-name>`. When you set the environment using `wrangler <command> --env <environment-name>`, such an environment specific file will be loaded instead of the `.env` file - they are not merged.
:::

## Supported environment variables

Wrangler supports the following environment variables:



* `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [account ID](/fundamentals/setup/find-account-and-zone-ids/) for the Workers related account.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) for your Cloudflare account, can be used for authentication for situations like CI/CD, and other automation.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The API key for your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=`.

* `CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The email address associated with your Cloudflare account, usually used for older authentication method with `CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=`.

* `WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * Options for this are `true` and `false`. Defaults to `true`. Controls whether Wrangler can send anonymous usage data to Cloudflare for this project. You can learn more about this in our [data policy](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/wrangler/telemetry.md).

* `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_<BINDING_NAME>`<Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The [local connection string](/hyperdrive/configuration/local-development/) for your database to use in local development with [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/). For example, if the binding for your Hyperdrive is named `PROD_DB`, this would be `WRANGLER_HYPERDRIVE_LOCAL_CONNECTION_STRING_PROD_DB="postgres://user:password@127.0.0.1:5432/testdb"`. Each Hyperdrive is uniquely distinguished by the binding name.

* `CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * The default value is `"https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4"`.

* `WRANGLER_LOG` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * Options for Logging levels are `"none"`, `"error"`, `"warn"`, `"info"`, `"log"` and `"debug"`. Levels are case-insensitive and default to `"log"`. If an invalid level is specified, Wrangler will fallback to the default. Logs can include requests to Cloudflare's API, any usage data being collected, and more verbose error logs.

* `FORCE_COLOR` <Type text="string" /> <MetaInfo text="optional" />

  * By setting this to `0`, you can disable Wrangler's colorised output, which makes it easier to read with some terminal setups. For example, `FORCE_COLOR=0`.





## Example `.env` file

The following is an example `.env` file:

```bash
CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID_VALUE>
CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN=<YOUR_API_TOKEN_VALUE>
CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL=<YOUR_EMAIL>
WRANGLER_SEND_METRICS=true
CLOUDFLARE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4
WRANGLER_LOG=debug
```

## Deprecated global variables

The following variables are deprecated. Use the new variables listed above to prevent any issues or unwanted messaging.

* `CF_ACCOUNT_ID`
* `CF_API_TOKEN`
* `CF_API_KEY`
* `CF_EMAIL`
* `CF_API_BASE_URL`
