src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Okta
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Okta provides cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication to modern applications, and helps developers build identity controls into applications, website web services, and devices. You can integrate Okta with Cloudflare Zero Trust and build rules based on user identity and group membership. Cloudflare Zero Trust supports Okta integrations using either the OIDC (default) or [SAML](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta-saml/) protocol.

Additionally, you can configure Okta to use risk information from Zero Trust [user risk scores](/cloudflare-one/insights/risk-score/) to create SSO-level policies. For more information, refer to [Send risk score to Okta](/cloudflare-one/insights/risk-score/#send-risk-score-to-okta).

## Set up Okta as an OIDC provider

1. On your Okta admin dashboard, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Create App Integration**.

3. For the **Sign-in method**, select **OIDC - OpenID Connect**.

   ![Creating an OIDC application in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-1.png)

4. For the **Application type**, select **Web Application**. Select **Next**.

5. Enter any name for the application. In the **Sign-in redirect URIs** field, enter the following URL:

   ```txt
   https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
   ```

   You can find your team name in Zero Trust under **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.

6. Choose the desired **Assignment** option and select **Save**.

7. From the application view, go to the **Sign On** tab.

8. Scroll down to the **OpenID ConnectID Token** and select **Edit**.

   ![Configuring the Groups claim filter in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-2.png)

9. Set the **Groups claim filter** to _Matches regex_ and its value to `.*`.

   :::note
   Groups managed outside of Okta (for example, Microsoft Entra ID or Google groups) may require different regex values. For more information, refer to the [Okta documentation](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/Why-isnt-my-Groups-claim-returning-Active-Directory-groups).
   :::

10. In the **General** tab, copy the **Client ID** and **Client secret**.

    ![Finding your Client credentials in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-3.png)

11. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.

12. Under **Login methods**, select **Add new**. Select **Okta** as your identity provider.

13. Fill in the following information:

    - **Name**: Name your identity provider.
    - **App ID**: Enter your Okta client ID.
    - **Client secret**: Enter your Okta client secret.
    - **Okta account URL**: Enter your [Okta domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-domain/main/), for example `https://my-company.okta.com`.

14. (Optional) Create an Okta API token and enter it in Zero Trust (the token can be read-only). This will prevent your Okta groups from failing if you have more than 100 groups.

15. (Optional) To configure [custom OIDC claims](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/generic-oidc/#oidc-claims):

    1. In Okta, create a [custom authorization server](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/main/) and ensure that the `groups` scope is enabled.
    2. In Zero Trust, enter the **Authorization Server ID** obtained from Okta.
    3. Under **Optional configurations**, enter the claims that you wish to add to your users' identity. This information will be available in the [user identity endpoint](/cloudflare-one/identity/authorization-cookie/application-token/#user-identity)

16. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/). PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

17. Select **Save**.

To [test](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/#test-idps-in-zero-trust) that your connection is working, select **Test**.

:::note

If you see the error `Failed to fetch user/group information from the identity`, double-check your Okta configuration:

- If you have more than 100 Okta groups, ensure you include the API token.
- The request may be blocked by the [ThreatInsights feature](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Security/threat-insight/ti-index.htm) within Okta.

:::

## Synchronize users and groups

The Okta integration allows you to synchronize IdP groups and automatically deprovision users using [SCIM](/cloudflare-one/identity/users/scim/). To enable SCIM provisioning between Access and Okta, you need two separate app integrations in Okta:

- The Okta OIDC connector you created when adding [Okta as an identity provider](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta/#set-up-okta-as-an-oidc-provider).
- A second Okta application of type **SCIM 2.0 Test App (Header Auth)**. This is technically a SAML app but is responsible for sending user and group info via SCIM.

:::note
If you would like to only maintain one Okta app instance, Okta does support SAML and SCIM within the same application. Create a [generic SAML integration](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/generic-saml/) and configure those values in the **Sign-On** field of your Okta SCIM application.
:::

### 1. Enable SCIM in Zero Trust

<Render
	file="access/enable-scim-on-dashboard"
	params={{ idp: "Okta"}}
/>

### 2. Configure SCIM in Okta

1. On your Okta admin dashboard, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Browse App Catalog**.

3. Search for `SCIM Header Auth` and select **SCIM 2.0 Test App (Header Auth)**.

4. Select **Add Integration**.

5. On the **General Settings** tab, name your application and select **Next**.

6. On the **Sign-on Options** tab, ensure that **SAML 2.0** is selected. Select **Done** to create the integration.

7. On the **Provisioning** tab, select **Configure API Integration**.

8. Select **Enable API integration**.

9. In the **Base URL** field, enter the **SCIM Endpoint** obtained from Zero Trust.

10. In the **API Token** field, enter the **SCIM Secret** obtained from Zero Trust.

    ![Enter SCIM values into Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/enter-scim-values.png)

11. Select **Test API Credentials** to ensure that the credentials were entered correctly. Select **Save**.

12. On the **Provisioning** tab, select **Edit** and enable:

    - **Create Users**
    - **Update User Attributes**
    - **Deactivate Users**

    ![Configure provisioning settings in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/enable-provisioning.png)

13. Select **Save** to complete the configuration.

14. In the **Assignments** tab, add the users you want to synchronize with Cloudflare Access. You can add users in batches by assigning a group. If a user is removed from the application assignment via a either direct user assignment or removed from the group that was assigned to the app, this will trigger a deprovisioning event from Okta to Cloudflare. 

15. In the **Push Groups** tab, add the Okta groups you want to synchronize with Cloudflare Access. These groups will display in the Access policy builder and are the group memberships that will be added and removed upon membership change in Okta.

	:::note
	Groups in this SCIM app Push Groups integration should match the groups in your base [OIDC app integration](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta/#set-up-okta-as-an-oidc-provider). Because SCIM group membership updates will overwrite any groups in a user's identity, assigning the same groups to each app ensures consistent policy evaluation.
	:::

To verify the integration, select **View Logs** in the Okta SCIM application.

<Render file="access/verify-scim-provisioning"/>

## Example API Configuration

```json
{
	"config": {
		"client_id": "<your client id>",
		"client_secret": "<your client secret>",
		"okta_account": "https://dev-abc123.oktapreview.com"
	},
	"type": "okta",
	"name": "my example idp"
}
```

Commit message:

[CF1] adding okta docs on claims (#19455)
* [CF1] adding okta docs on claims

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Okta
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Okta provides cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication to modern applications, and helps developers build identity controls into applications, website web services, and devices. You can integrate Okta with Cloudflare Zero Trust and build rules based on user identity and group membership. Cloudflare Zero Trust supports Okta integrations using either the OIDC (default) or [SAML](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta-saml/) protocol.

Additionally, you can configure Okta to use risk information from Zero Trust [user risk scores](/cloudflare-one/insights/risk-score/) to create SSO-level policies. For more information, refer to [Send risk score to Okta](/cloudflare-one/insights/risk-score/#send-risk-score-to-okta).

## Set up Okta as an OIDC provider

1. On your Okta admin dashboard, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Create App Integration**.

3. For the **Sign-in method**, select **OIDC - OpenID Connect**.

   ![Creating an OIDC application in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-1.png)

4. For the **Application type**, select **Web Application**. Select **Next**.

5. Enter any name for the application. In the **Sign-in redirect URIs** field, enter the following URL:

   ```txt
   https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
   ```

   You can find your team name in Zero Trust under **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.

6. Choose the desired **Assignment** option and select **Save**.

7. From the application view, go to the **Sign On** tab.

8. Scroll down to the **OpenID ConnectID Token** and select **Edit**.

   ![Configuring the Groups claim filter in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-2.png)

9. Set the **Groups claim filter** to _Matches regex_ and its value to `.*`.

   :::note
   Groups managed outside of Okta (for example, Microsoft Entra ID or Google groups) may require different regex values. For more information, refer to the Okta documentation on [Groups Claims](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/Why-isnt-my-Groups-claim-returning-Active-Directory-groups) and [OpenID Connect Claims](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/Can-we-retrieve-both-Active-Directory-and-Okta-groups-in-OpenID-Connect-claims).
   :::

10. In the **General** tab, copy the **Client ID** and **Client secret**.

    ![Finding your Client credentials in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/okta-3.png)

11. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.

12. Under **Login methods**, select **Add new**. Select **Okta** as your identity provider.

13. Fill in the following information:

    - **Name**: Name your identity provider.
    - **App ID**: Enter your Okta client ID.
    - **Client secret**: Enter your Okta client secret.
    - **Okta account URL**: Enter your [Okta domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-domain/main/), for example `https://my-company.okta.com`.

14. (Optional) Create an Okta API token and enter it in Zero Trust (the token can be read-only). This will prevent your Okta groups from failing if you have more than 100 groups.

15. (Optional) To configure [custom OIDC claims](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/generic-oidc/#oidc-claims):

    1. In Okta, create a [custom authorization server](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/main/) and ensure that the `groups` scope is enabled.
    2. In Zero Trust, enter the **Authorization Server ID** obtained from Okta.
    3. Under **Optional configurations**, enter the claims that you wish to add to your users' identity. This information will be available in the [user identity endpoint](/cloudflare-one/identity/authorization-cookie/application-token/#user-identity)

16. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/). PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

17. Select **Save**.

To [test](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/#test-idps-in-zero-trust) that your connection is working, select **Test**.

:::note

If you see the error `Failed to fetch user/group information from the identity`, double-check your Okta configuration:

- If you have more than 100 Okta groups, ensure you include the API token.
- The request may be blocked by the [ThreatInsights feature](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Security/threat-insight/ti-index.htm) within Okta.

:::

## Synchronize users and groups

The Okta integration allows you to synchronize IdP groups and automatically deprovision users using [SCIM](/cloudflare-one/identity/users/scim/). To enable SCIM provisioning between Access and Okta, you need two separate app integrations in Okta:

- The Okta OIDC connector you created when adding [Okta as an identity provider](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta/#set-up-okta-as-an-oidc-provider).
- A second Okta application of type **SCIM 2.0 Test App (Header Auth)**. This is technically a SAML app but is responsible for sending user and group info via SCIM.

:::note
If you would like to only maintain one Okta app instance, Okta does support SAML and SCIM within the same application. Create a [generic SAML integration](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/generic-saml/) and configure those values in the **Sign-On** field of your Okta SCIM application.
:::

### 1. Enable SCIM in Zero Trust

<Render file="access/enable-scim-on-dashboard" params={{ idp: "Okta" }} />

### 2. Configure SCIM in Okta

1. On your Okta admin dashboard, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.

2. Select **Browse App Catalog**.

3. Search for `SCIM Header Auth` and select **SCIM 2.0 Test App (Header Auth)**.

4. Select **Add Integration**.

5. On the **General Settings** tab, name your application and select **Next**.

6. On the **Sign-on Options** tab, ensure that **SAML 2.0** is selected. Select **Done** to create the integration.

7. On the **Provisioning** tab, select **Configure API Integration**.

8. Select **Enable API integration**.

9. In the **Base URL** field, enter the **SCIM Endpoint** obtained from Zero Trust.

10. In the **API Token** field, enter the **SCIM Secret** obtained from Zero Trust.

    ![Enter SCIM values into Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/enter-scim-values.png)

11. Select **Test API Credentials** to ensure that the credentials were entered correctly. Select **Save**.

12. On the **Provisioning** tab, select **Edit** and enable:

    - **Create Users**
    - **Update User Attributes**
    - **Deactivate Users**

    ![Configure provisioning settings in Okta](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/okta/enable-provisioning.png)

13. Select **Save** to complete the configuration.

14. In the **Assignments** tab, add the users you want to synchronize with Cloudflare Access. You can add users in batches by assigning a group. If a user is removed from the application assignment via a either direct user assignment or removed from the group that was assigned to the app, this will trigger a deprovisioning event from Okta to Cloudflare.

15. In the **Push Groups** tab, add the Okta groups you want to synchronize with Cloudflare Access. These groups will display in the Access policy builder and are the group memberships that will be added and removed upon membership change in Okta.

    :::note
    Groups in this SCIM app Push Groups integration should match the groups in your base [OIDC app integration](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/okta/#set-up-okta-as-an-oidc-provider). Because SCIM group membership updates will overwrite any groups in a user's identity, assigning the same groups to each app ensures consistent policy evaluation.
    :::

To verify the integration, select **View Logs** in the Okta SCIM application.

<Render file="access/verify-scim-provisioning" />

## Example API Configuration

```json
{
	"config": {
		"client_id": "<your client id>",
		"client_secret": "<your client secret>",
		"okta_account": "https://dev-abc123.oktapreview.com"
	},
	"type": "okta",
	"name": "my example idp"
}
```
