src/content/docs/api-shield/security/api-discovery.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
type: overview
title: API Discovery
sidebar:
  order: 1

---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components"

Most development teams struggle to keep track of their APIs. Cloudflare API Discovery helps you map out and understand your attack surface area.

## Process

Cloudflare produces a simple, trustworthy map of <GlossaryTooltip term="API endpoint">API endpoints</GlossaryTooltip> through a process of path normalization.

For example, you might have thousands of APIs, but a lot of the calls look similar, such as:

- `api.example.com/profile/238`
- `api.example.com/profile/392`

Both paths serve a similar purpose — allowing users to log in to their accounts — but they are not identical. To simplify your endpoints, these examples might both map to `api.example.com/profile/*`.

API Discovery runs this process across all your traffic, generating a simple map of endpoints that might look like:

```
/api/login/{customer_identifier}
/api/auth
/api/account/{customer_identifier}
/api/password_reset
/api/logout
```

Similarly, if you have multiple subdomains that share the same set of endpoints, Cloudflare will consolidate subdomains:

```txt
us-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
de-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
fr-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
jp-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
```

We will consolidate to `{hostVar1}.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}`.

<Render file="blog-post" />

### Inbox view

API Shield first catalogs your discovered API endpoints in an email inbox-style view. From API Discovery, you can save endpoints to [Endpoint Management](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/) or ignore endpoints to remove them from view.

You should save all discovered API endpoints to Endpoint Management while ignoring any potential false positives in the API Discovery results by selecting **Save** or **Ignore** on each line. Alternatively, you can bulk-select endpoints to save or ignore. You can get started with saving endpoints by saving all endpoints with a variable. Search for `var1` in the search box and add all the resulting endpoints. You can examine endpoints without path variables for accuracy later on.

By adding endpoints to Endpoint Management, you will unlock further [security](/api-shield/security/), [visibility](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/#endpoint-performance-analysis), and [management](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/) features of the platform. Endpoint Management monitors the health of your API endpoints by saving, updating, and monitoring performance metrics.

To restore any errantly ignored endpoints, you can filter by **Ignored** and select **Restore**.

Check back regularly for new API Discovery results. A badge with the number of endpoints needing review will show in the API Shield dashboard.

:::note

Cloudflare will use your feedback on the ignored endpoints to better train the API Discovery Machine Learning model in a future release. 
:::

### Machine Learning-based Discovery

Your API endpoints are discovered with both the Session Identifier-based Discovery and the Machine Learning-based Discovery.

To access Machine Learning-based Discovery, log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) and select your account and domain. Go to **API Shield** > **Discovery**. You may filter the source results by `Session Identifier` or `Machine Learning` to view results from each Discovery method.

If all of your zone’s API traffic contains the <GlossaryTooltip term="session identifier">session identifier</GlossaryTooltip> that you have configured, both sources may deliver the same results due to similarities between their underlying methodology. We expect Machine Learning-based Discovery to excel in discovering API traffic regardless of whether your API uses a session identifier.

You can direct any feedback about your API Discovery results to your account team.

## Availability

API Discovery is only available for Enterprise customers. If you are an Enterprise customer and interested in this product, contact your account team.

Commit message:

update API Discovery's ongoing nature (#19476)

src/content/docs/api-shield/security/api-discovery.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
type: overview
title: API Discovery
sidebar:
  order: 1

---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components"

Most development teams struggle to keep track of their APIs. Cloudflare API Discovery helps you map out and understand your attack surface area.

## Process

Cloudflare produces a simple, trustworthy map of <GlossaryTooltip term="API endpoint">API endpoints</GlossaryTooltip> through a process of path normalization.

For example, you might have thousands of APIs, but a lot of the calls look similar, such as:

- `api.example.com/profile/238`
- `api.example.com/profile/392`

Both paths serve a similar purpose — allowing users to log in to their accounts — but they are not identical. To simplify your endpoints, these examples might both map to `api.example.com/profile/*`.

API Discovery runs this process across all your traffic, generating a simple map of endpoints that might look like:

```
/api/login/{customer_identifier}
/api/auth
/api/account/{customer_identifier}
/api/password_reset
/api/logout
```

Similarly, if you have multiple subdomains that share the same set of endpoints, Cloudflare will consolidate subdomains:

```txt
us-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
de-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
fr-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
jp-api.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}
```

We will consolidate to `{hostVar1}.example.com/api/v1/users/{var1}`.

<Render file="blog-post" />

### Inbox view

API Shield first catalogs your discovered API endpoints in an email inbox-style view. From API Discovery, you can save endpoints to [Endpoint Management](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/) or ignore endpoints to remove them from view.

You should save all discovered API endpoints to Endpoint Management while ignoring any potential false positives in the API Discovery results by selecting **Save** or **Ignore** on each line. Alternatively, you can bulk-select endpoints to save or ignore. You can get started with saving endpoints by saving all endpoints with a variable. Search for `var1` in the search box and add all the resulting endpoints. You can examine endpoints without path variables for accuracy later on.

By adding endpoints to Endpoint Management, you will unlock further [security](/api-shield/security/), [visibility](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/#endpoint-performance-analysis), and [management](/api-shield/management-and-monitoring/) features of the platform. Endpoint Management monitors the health of your API endpoints by saving, updating, and monitoring performance metrics.

To restore any errantly ignored endpoints, you can filter by **Ignored** and select **Restore**.

API Discovery is an ongoing process. Check back regularly for new API Discovery results. A badge with the number of endpoints needing review will show in the API Shield dashboard. You may see the quantities in the **Needs Review** and **Ignored** metrics change over time. As your actual API or traffic patterns to your APIs change, API Discovery results that are not saved can disappear.

:::note

Cloudflare will use your feedback on the ignored endpoints to better train the API Discovery Machine Learning model in a future release. 
:::

### Machine Learning-based Discovery

Your API endpoints are discovered with both the Session Identifier-based Discovery and the Machine Learning-based Discovery.

To access Machine Learning-based Discovery, log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) and select your account and domain. Go to **API Shield** > **Discovery**. You may filter the source results by `Session Identifier` or `Machine Learning` to view results from each Discovery method.

If all of your zone’s API traffic contains the <GlossaryTooltip term="session identifier">session identifier</GlossaryTooltip> that you have configured, both sources may deliver the same results due to similarities between their underlying methodology. We expect Machine Learning-based Discovery to excel in discovering API traffic regardless of whether your API uses a session identifier.

You can direct any feedback about your API Discovery results to your account team.

## Availability

API Discovery is only available for Enterprise customers. If you are an Enterprise customer and interested in this product, contact your account team.
